PLATO 
Plato —Son of Ariston son of Aristocles, and Perictione\ ... who was a descendant of Solon ... He was born in Aegina in the 88th Olympiad （428-5 B.C.）, just after the outbreak of the Peloponnesian War. He lived to be eighty-two, dying in the 108th Olympiad （348-5）. His first lessons were given him by a certain Dionysius, and he learnt gymnastics of Ariston of Argos. Later, he learnt the art of petry, and wrote dithyrambs and tragedies, but in the end he threw this up in favour of philosophy, which he studied under Socrates for twenty years... Plato made three journeys to Sicily, to the courts of the two despots Dionysius, and was sold as a slave by one of them, being bought by Anniceris the Libyan, who set him free. He spent his life teaching in the Academy. His successors at that school were these, Speusippus, Xenocrates, Polemo, Crantor, Crates ... His genuine  Dialogues  number fifty-six...   Suidas  
Inscriptions 
In the 4th Book of his  Luxury of the Ancients  Aristippus tells us that Plato became attached to a youth named  Aster  or Star with whom he studied astronomy, and also to the above-mentioned Dion
（and as some say, to Phaedrus）, the depth of his affection being revealed in the following ‘inscriptions’ or epigrams which he wrote upon them:
Thou gazest at the stars, my star; would I were Heaven, that I might gaze at thee with many eyes! cf. Apul. Apol. 10 （with the next）, A.P. 7. 669  ει）ς Α᾿στέρα τὸν μαθητήν  , Plan.  ; translated by Ausonius Ep. 144     CURFRAG.tlg-0059.1  
And this: 
Even as you shone once the Star of Morn among the living, so in death you shine now the Star of Eve among the dead. cf. A.P. 7. 670     CURFRAG.tlg-0059.2  
And on Dion this: 
The Fates once decreed tears unto Hecuba and the women of Troy at their birth; thy widespread or, emending the Gk. firm-set, like （pointed-ended） amphorae in the soil of a wine-cellar, cf. Dem. 55. 24  ἀποκλιθῇναι    hopes, Dion, the Gods did spill upon the ground when thou hadst triumphed in the doing of noble deeds; and so in the spacious city that bare thee liest thou honoured by thy fellow-countrymen, O Dion who didst make my heart mad with love of thee. at Plato's first visit to Syracuse he was about 40 and D. about 20; cf. A.P. 7. 99, Suid. geiname/nais （1-2）, Apul.  Apol.  10     CURFRAG.tlg-0059.3  
This, according to Aristippus, was inscribed on Dion's tomb at Syracuse. It is also said that when enamoured of Alexis this might be the comic poet born c. 394 when Plato was 31  and Phaedrus Ph. seems to have been a younger contemporary of Socrates rather than of Plato  he wrote in the following way: 
Now, when I have but whispered   lit.  said just （o（/son, cf. the use with numerals） only nothing  that Alexis is fair, he is the observed of all observers; why, my heart, dost reveal the dogs a bone? Thou 'lt be sorry for it afterwards; was it not thus we lost Phaedrus? cf. Apul.  Apol.  10,  A.P.  7. 100     CURFRAG.tlg-0059.4  
He is said, too, to have had a mistress, Archeanassa, on whom he wrote thus: 
My mistress is Archeanassa of Colophon, on whose very wrinkles there is bitter love. O hapless ye that met such beauty on its first voyage; through what a burning did ye pass! cf. Ath. 13. 589 c, A.P. 7. 217  , Suid.   ῥυτίς  （2）     CURFRAG.tlg-0059.5  
There is this too on Agathon: as A. was born 20 years before Plato, this poem, like the next but one, seems to have been written, like the  Dialogues  , by Plato personating Socrates: cf. Gell. 19. 11. 1, Macr.  Sat.  2. 2. 15, A.P. 5. 77, Cram.  A.P.  4. 384. 1  
When I kiss Agathon my soul is on my lips, whither it comes, poor thing, hoping to cross over.   i.e.  like a soul across the Styx into Elysium     CURFRAG.tlg-0059.6  
And another: 
I cast the apple at you, and if you truly love me, take it and give me of your maidenhood; but if your thoughts be what I pray they are not, then too take it and consider how short-lived is beauty. cf.  A.P.  5. 78     CURFRAG.tlg-0059.7  
&lt;And this:&gt; 
I am an apple; one that loves you casts me at you. Say yes, Xanthippe; we fade, both you and I. cf. A.P. 5. 79 （  Plan.   φιλοδήμου  ）1     CURFRAG.tlg-0059.8  
It is also said that the lines on the Eretrians who were swept into captivity by the Persians in 490 B.C., cf. Hdt. 6. 101; the burial （if this is Plato's） is metaphorical  are his: 
We are Eretrians of Euboea, but we lie near Susa, alas, how far from home! cf.  A.P.  7. 259  , Sch. Hermog.  Rh. Gr.  7. 1. 193 W, Cram.  A.O.  4. 154. 10, Suid.  Ι῾ππίας  ; the next poem ascribed to Plato by Diog. （= A.P. 9. 39） cannot be his ,    CURFRAG.tlg-0059.9  
Diogenes Laertius  Lives of the Philosophers     
And again:
One that found some gold left a halter, and he who did not find the gold he had left put on the halter he had found. cf.  A.P.  9. 44       CURFRAG.tlg-0059.10  
Diogenes Laertius  Lives of the Philosophers     
Plato; inscribed on a mirror dedicated by Lais:
She that laughed so disdainfully at Greece, she that once kept a swarm of young lovers at her door, Lais offers this mirror to the Paphian this expression for  Aphrodite  makes the ascription doubtful  because she has no wish to see herself as she is, and cannot see herself as she was. cf. Olymp. in    Alc.  i p. 31 （31-4）; translated by Ausonius  Ep.  65     CURFRAG.tlg-0059.11  
Planudean and Palatine Anthologies:   
Plato:
This man was pleasing to strangers and dear to his countrymen —Pindar, the servitor of the melodious Muses. Pindar died c. 440, Plato was born 427: cf. Plut.  An. Procr.  33  Πλ. τῷ Πινδάρῳ ποιήσας ἐπικήδειον:  （1）     CURFRAG.tlg-0059.12  
Palatine Anthology:   
Plato; on the Eretrians who lie at Ecbatana:
To lie here amidst the plains of Ecbatana we once left the sounding waves of the Aegean. Fare thee well renowned Eretria once our country, fare thee well Euboea's neighbour Athens, fare thee well dear Sea. cf. 9 and  A.P.  7. 256, Philostr.  Vit. Ap.  i. 24     CURFRAG.tlg-0059.13  
Palatine Anthology:   
Plato; on another lost at sea:
I am the tomb of a sailor;   or, keeping the ms.-reading  , shipwrecked man  the tomb opposite is a farmer's; for the same death is beneath the land as beneath the sea.    CURFRAG.tlg-0059.14  
Palatine Anthology:   
Plato; on another lost at sea:
May ye be safe, ye seamen, both by sea and land; yet I would have you know that the tomb ye pass is a shipwrecked man's.    CURFRAG.tlg-0059.15  
Palatine Anthology:   
Plato; on Sappho:
Some say there are nine Muses; but they should stop to think. Look at Sappho of Lesbos; she makes a tenth. cf. Auson.  Ep.  32     CURFRAG.tlg-0059.16  
Planudean and Palatine Anthologies:   
When Cypris saw Cypris at Cnidus, ‘Alas!’ said she; ‘where did Praxiteles see me naked?’    CURFRAG.tlg-0059.17  
Planudean Anthology:   after two on the same subject wrongly ascribed to Plato the lemma gives ‘unknown’; the ref. is to the famous statue by Praxiteles   
Plato himself wrote the following ‘inscription’ on Aristophanes:
The Graces, seeking for themselves a shrine that would not fall, found the soul of Aristophanes. cf. Olymp.  Vit. Plat.  i and ii     CURFRAG.tlg-0059.18  
Thomas Magister  Life of Aristophanes:   
SIMMIAS OF THEBES 
Simmias of Thebes:—Philosopher, pupil of Socrates. He wrote  On Wisdom ... On ‘Music’  ... and other works of philosophy.   Suidas   Lexicon:   
Simmias:—of Thebes; twenty-three Dialogues of his are extant in one Book, ..  On Epic Poetry .. The Nature of the Beautiful.     Diogenes Laertius   Lives of the Philosophers:   
Socrates. You are an extraordinary person with your speeches, Phaedrus, quite wonderful. I really think that of all the speeches composed during your lifetime, more owe their existence to you than to anyone else, whether they be of your own making or made, somehow, because you would have it so —I except Simmias of Thebes, but otherwise you are easily first —, and now again it seems you have been the cause of still another.   Plato   Phaedrus:   
elegies 
Simmias of Thebes on Sophocles: ascription doubtful; given by some editors to Simmias of Rhodes; the second is rather Alexandrian in tone, but both may well fall, in any case, within the scope of this book （cf.
e.g.  the Chaeronea epitaphs） 
Thee the singer to the dance, Sophocles child of Sophillus, the Tragic Muse's Cecropian Athenian  star, whose locks were so often crowned with the crooked Acharnian ivy that blooms amid the altar and the stage, a tomb holdeth thee now and a little plot of earth; but the over-measure of thy life still sees in thy immortal pages. cf. Suid.  Κέκροψ, Ἀχαρνείτης, βλαισός, θυμέλη       CURFRAG.tlg-1673.1  
Palatine Anthology:   
Simmias of Thebes on Sophocles:
Creep gently, ivy, gently, as thou lavishest thy green tresses o'er the tomb of Sophocles, and all about be the flower of the rose blooming, and the doting mother of grapes with the embrace of her lush tendrils; because of the wise-hearted nimbleness of wit which the delicious singer did train in the school both of the Muses and of the Graces. cf. Suid.  ἄμμιγα, πινυτός       CURFRAG.tlg-1673.2  
Palatine Anthology:   
Simmias of Thebes on Plato the Philosopher
Here lies the divine man Aristocles, Plato's real name  who surpassed the world in temperance and justice; and if any man hath ever had great praise of all men for wisdom, that most of all hath he, and getteth no envy. cf. Diog. L. 3. 43     CURFRAG.tlg-1673.3  
Palatine Anthology:   
PRAXITELES 
In the 103rd Olympiad （368-5 B.C.） flourished Praxiteles, Euphranor..   Pliny   Natural History:   
... Praxiteles, too, whose work in marble was his most successful and therefore his most famous, produced, however, some extremely fine work in bronze...   Pliny   Natural History:   
Later, they dedicated other works in the Heraeum, including a Hermes in marble holding the infant Dionysus; this is the work of Praxiteles. discovered there in 1877 and still to be seen at Olympia    Pausanias   Description of Greece     
Inscription 
When Praxiteles the sculptor was in love with Phryne he took her for the model of his Cnidian Aphrodite, and upon the base of his statue of Love below the stage in the theatre inscribed these lines:
Taking his own heart for the pattern, Praxiteles portrayed the love he felt, and gave me to Phryne as the price of myself; and so the love-spell I cast comes no longer of my own bow but of another's gaze. ascription doubtful, but the poem is of his time: cf.  A. Plan.  204       CURFRAG.tlg-1633.1  
Athenaeus   Doctors at Dinner   
PARRHASIUS 
Next come Zeuxis and Parrhasius who are nearly contemporaries, being both of the time of the Peloponnesian War —for a conversation of Socrates with Parrhasius may be found in Xenophon —, and did much to advance their art. The former is said ..., and the latter to have paid particular attention to line; indeed Parrhasius so systematised the art that he is known as the lawgiver, because the representations of Gods and heroes deriving from him are followed by other painters as though of necessity.   Quintilian   Elements of Oratory     
Parrhasius:—According to Juba in the 8th Book of his treatise On the Painters ... he was the son and pupil of Euenor, and by extraction an Ephesian.   Harpocration   Lexicon to the Attic Orators:   
In the 90th Olympiad （420-17 B.C.） flourished ... Euenor, father and teacher of the great painter Parrhasius.   Pliny   Natural History:   
Inscriptions 
Luxury and extravagance were so much practised among the ancients that even the painter Parrhasius wore a purple cloak and a golden crown, as we may learn from the  Lives  of Clearchus. Though he was given to a luxury entirely out of keeping with his art, he paid lip-service to virtue and inscribed upon his works the line:
The painter of this lived in style and worshipped virtue;    CURFRAG.tlg-1567.1  
and somebody, highly indignant, changed it to  lived by stile   . Indeed he inscribed many of his works with the following lines: 
The painter of this lived in style and worshipped virtue, his name Parrhasius, his birthplace far-famed Ephesus; nor was he forgetful of Euenor who not only begot him in wedlock but made him the first artist in Greece.    CURFRAG.tlg-1567.2  
He also made the following quite unobjectionalbe boast: 
Believe it or not, I tell you this: The limits, I say, of this art have now been discovered plain by my hand, and the bounds are fixed that none may pass. Yet is nothing without blame in the world of men. cf. Aristid. 2. 520 （  ζωγράφου τι ἐπίγραμμα  ）, Plin.  N.H.  35. 71     CURFRAG.tlg-1567.3  
And when he was painting the Heracles of Lindus he made the very strange claim that the God was appearing to him in his dreams and posing for him, and indeed he wrote upon the picture: 
And such you may see him as he appeared often to Parrhasius in his sleep at night. cf. Themist.  Or.  2. 34     CURFRAG.tlg-1567.4  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
ZEUXIS 
Chorus 
Foster-sister of the Graces And of Cypris throned above, Holy Reconciliation, So much fairer than we knew, O that somehow as they paint him, With a wreath of roses, Love, Love might take our hands and join us, You to me and me to you!   
Aristophanes  Acharnians:   
In the temple of Aphrodite at Athens the painter Zeuxis depicted Love as an extremely blooming youth wreathed with roses.   Scholiast on Aristophanes   Acharnians:   
... Zeuxis and Parrhasius ... of whom the former is said to have discovered the principles of light and shade... For Zeuxis gave greater breadth than Parrhasius to the limbs of the body, holding that this produces a fuller and more majestic effect, and imitating, as is believed, Homer, who delights in all strong bodies even in the case of women.   Quintilian   Elements of Oratory     
Inscriptions 
Hear now another painter, in your opinion doubtless a braggart, but, according to those who know, a perfectly sensible man; and what says he?
Heraclea my birthplace, Zeuxis my name; and if any man say he holds the ends of my art,   i.e.  has control of, is master of, such an art as mine: cf. Theogn. 140, Mimn. 2. 6 n, Archil. 55  let him prove it ere he be believed ... two half-lines lost  To my thinking, I hold no second place.    CURFRAG.smith-zeuxis-bio-6.1  
Aristides  On the Extemporised Addition:   
He painted ... an athlete, and was so proud of his work that he wrote beneath it the line which has since become famous:
Criticism comes easier than craftsmanship.  more literally  It is easier to find fault than to imitate （i.e. it is easier to say a thing's ill done than to do it as well）;  or more particularly  This will be found fault with rather than imitated; cf. Theogn. 369    CURFRAG.smith-zeuxis-bio-6.2  
Pliny  Natural History     
THUCYDIDES （?） 
The Athenian Thucydides was a son of Olorus, a Thracian by extraction, his father deriving the name of Olorus from Thrace.... He was a pupil of the orator Antiphon of Rhamnus.... Thucydides was a born soldier, and having the care of the mines of Thasos was rich and powerful, but in the Peloponnesian War he incurred a charge of treason because of his dilatory and neglectful conduct.... Becoming an exile, Thucydides occupied himself with his  History of the Peloponnesian War  .... After completing the eighth Book he died of disease.... He was buried at Athens near the Melitean Gates.     Life of Thucydides:   
Inscription 
On Euripides  
He was buried in Macedonia, but there was a cenotaph to him at Athens with an inscription written either by the historian Thucydides or by the lyric poet Timotheus:
Though his bones lie in Macedon where his life was ended, the whole of Greece is the monument of Euripides; but his birthplace was Athens, the Greece of Greece, and giving much joy by his Muses, he hath the thanks for it from many men. >cf.  A.P.  7. 45 （‘Thucydides the historian’）,  Plan.  （‘Anonymous’）, Ath. 5. 187 d （‘Thucydides’）, but it should be remembered that Timotheus, the other claimant, was a great friend of Euripides     CURFRAG.tlg-0003.1  
Life of Euripides:   
APOLLODORUS 
None.    
Inscription 
The above-mentioned Apollodorus composed some lines in which he accused Zeuxis of stealing and going off with his art.
e.g.  Zeuxis hath stolen and gone off with my art.    CURFRAG.smith-apollodorus-bio-29.1  
Pliny  Natural History     
DIONYSUS THE YOUNGER 
From the time when Dionysius the Sicilian died and his son Dionysius reigned in his stead ... 104 years, in the archonship of Nausigenes at Athens （1368 B.C.）     Parian Chronicle:   
His son Dionysius succeeded him and reigned twelve years.   Diodorus of Sicily  Historical Library:   
Dionysius: —Son of the Sicilian despot, himself a despot and a philosopher. His writings are  Letters  and a treatise  On the Poems of Epicharmus  .   Suidas  Lexicon:   
: When he was driven from power he was asked ‘What good have Plato and philosophy been to you?’and replied ‘They have taught me to bear patiently a reversal of fortune such as this.’   Plutarch  Sayings of Kings   
Dionysius the despot when expelled from Syracuse taught school at Corinth.   Cicero  Tusculan Disputations:   
Dionysius the Second once spent some time with Philip son of Amyntas, in the course of which, naturally enough, points arose for discussion, among others this: Philip asked his guest how it was that having inherited so great a position he had been unable to keep it. The answer was apt enough: ‘My father left me all he had with one exception, and that was the luck with which he had won and kept the rest.’    Aelian  Historical Miscellanies   
As time wore on, Dionysius, growing both jealous of Dion and fearful of his popularity in Greece, kept back his revenues and entrusted his wealth to his own stewards. Desiring to repair the ill-name he had with the philosophers because of Plato, he now gathered about him many of the reputed wise and learned, and being ambitious of the first place in dialectic, was constrained to make ill use of his misunderstandings of Plato's teaching. Moreover he began to wish for him once more, and to blame himself for making so poor use of him when he had him, nor paying heed to him as he ought. And like the despot he was, always at the mercy of his own caprices and quick to respond to every impulse, it was suddenly all Plato with him, and after using every means in his power he persuaded Archytas the Pythagorean, who had first brought them together, to be his security for his  bona fides  and summon Plato to his side. Archytas sent off Archedemus to Plato, and Dionysius also dispatched a trireme and some friends of his to beg him to come, and himself wrote in no ambiguous terms to say that it would not go well with Dion if Plato refused to come to Sicily, whereas if he came it would be to his friend's great profit. Many requests too reached Dion from his wife and sister to entreat Plato to comply and to take no excuse. Thus, as Plato says, he came for the third time into the strait of Scylla:
So to retrace the path of dire Charybdis.    Odyssey 12. 428  
Plutarch  Life of Dion:   
See also Plat.  Epp.  1-3, 13, Justin. 21. 5, Ael. V.H. 4. 18, Plut.  Dion  9 ff, Diog. L. 3. 21, 23, 2. 61, 66 ff, Luc.  Menipp.  13,  Paras.  32 f, Ath. 12. 541.     
inscription 
Dionysius named himself a son of Apollo, writing on his tomb:
sprung from a Dorian As Doris of Locri was D.'s mother and Locri a Dorian city, a pun may be intended.  mother's converse with Phoebus    CURFRAG.tlg-0247.1  
Plutarch  The Fortune of Alexander:   
paeans 
To Apollo  
For when you addressed the God at Delphi, as those who were then enquiring of the oracle reported, you flattered him by using this very word （  Hail  ）, and, as I am told, you have written:
Hail, and preserve in happiness the life of a despot.    CURFRAG.tlg-0247.2  
Plato  Letter to Dionysius:   
To Asclepius  
: ... He said that the difference between him and his fellow-ambassadors arose because after supper his colleagues got some of the crew to join them in singing some of the Paeans of Phrynichus and Stesichorus and even of Pindar, whereas he, with the aid of any of the guests who chose, went through the Paeans composed by Dionysius himself. And he undertook to prove his statement. While his accusers, he declared, could remember not even the number of those songs, he himself was ready to sing them all from beginning to end. This calmed Dionysius, and Democles went on: ‘You would do me a favour, Dionysius, if you were to ask one of the professional musicians   or  someone who knows it  to teach me the Paean you have composed to Asclepius; for this, I understand, is what you have been engaged upon.’   Timaeus in Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
MAMERCUS 
See also Plut.  Tim.  30, 34, Nep.  Timol.  2, and Diod. Sic. 16. 69 （344 B.C.）, where Hiller v. Gart. would keep the MS. form of the name, ‘Marcus,’ comparing  I.G.  4. 1504 which prob. refers to a son of this man called after his father; the two are doubtless forms of the same name. For cities immediately sent envoys to ask if they might join him, and Mamercus, the despot of Catana, a military ruler with plenty of money, made alliance with him.   Plutarch   Life of Timoleon:   
When Timoleon was besieging the despot Mamercus, who had deceived and put to death a large number of people whom he had sworn to spare, he succeeded in outwitting him. The despot had agreed to surrender to him on condition that he should stand his trial before the Syracusans, Timoleon not to be the accuser; and Timoleon took an oath that he would not. The condition accepted, Mamercus came to Syracuse. Bringing him into the assembly, Timoleon said ‘I shall not accuse him, for that I have promised, but I bid you put him immediately to death. It is only just that one who has deceived others so many times should in like manner be deceived once himself.’   Polyaenus   Stratagems:   
inscription 
Most of the Syracusans were incensed by the contumely of the tyrants. For even Mamercus, who plumed himself on the poems and tragedies he wrote, when he defeated the mercenaries boasted of it, and when he dedicated their shields to the Gods, inscribed upon them the following insulting couplet:
These purple-painted shields of gold and ivory and electrum we took with little shields that cost us cheap.    CURFRAG.tlg-1476.1  
Plutarch  Life of Timoleon:   
ASTYDAMAS> 
Astydamas the Elder: —Son of Morsimus son of Philocles, both writers of tragedy; of Athens; writer of tragedy; wrote 240 plays; was 15 times victorious; he was a disciple of Isocrates, and changed his subject for tragedy.   Suidas   Lexicon:   
At this time （398 B.C.） Astydamas the tragedy-writer produced his first play. He lived to be sixty （?） years of age.   Diodorus of Sicily   Historical Library:   
From the time when Astydamas won at Athens 109 years, in the archonship of Asteius at Athens （373 B.C.）. inscriptions mention the performance of his tragedies in 348,342, and 341 （  Parthernopaeus  ） cf. Dittenb. 1078; we should therefore prob. read his age above as 90, but there has perh. been confusion between A. and his son of the same name     Parian Chronicle:   
The Athenians honoured Astydamas above poets like Aeschylus by giving him a bronze statue.   Diogenes Laertius   Lives of the Philosophers  2. 43  
inscription 
You praise yourself like old Astydamas:—Astydamas son of Morsimus, having won the prize with his tragedy  Parthenopaeus  , was accorded by the Athenians the right of dedicating his portrait in the Theatre, and composed on himself the following boastful inscription:
Would I had lived in their day or they in mine, who bear the palm for a happy tongue: then should I have been truly judged if I had come off first; but alas! the competitors beyond cavil were before my day. cf. Suid.  σαυτὴν ἐπαινεῖς  , Zenob. 5. 100     CURFRAG.tlg-0325.1  
Photius  Lexicon:   
PHILISCUS 
See also Cic.  de Orat.  2. 23. 94, Dion. Hal.  Ep. Amm.  2. Philiscus: —Of Miletus; orator; disciple of the orator Isocrates; he had formerly been a marvellous flute-player, and therefore Isocrates named him  Aulotrypes  or Flute-borer... His writings are these:  The Milesian Oration, The Amphictyonic, The Art of Rhetoric  in two Books,   An Answer to Isocrates  . cf. Hes. Mil. s.v.    Suidas   Lexicon:   
Timaeus: —Son of Andromachus, of Tauromenium: ...pupil of Philiscus of Miletus... He wrote a  History of Italy and Sicily  in eight Books, etc. cf. Suid.  Νεάνθης  ; P. wrote a  Life of Lycurgus  （the orator）, cf. Olymp. ad Plat.  Gorg.  ap. Lambec.  Comm. Bibl. Caes.  7. 127    Suidas   Lexicon:   
inscription 
An inscription was written for him by Philiscus the friend of Isocrates and comrade of Lysias, whereby it is proved that he was his senior, as indeed is manifest from what is said by Plato; it is as follows:
Now glib Thought, daughter of Calliope, wilt thou show what wisdom and mastery are thine; for one that hath adopted a new dress and taken another body in other realms of life the accus. is  pendens  ; besides a ref. to Pythagorean eschatology there is prob. a play on the double meanings ‘dress’ and rhetorical ‘figure,’ ‘world’ （or something like it; ‘of life’ is perh. necessary to this meaning）, and rhetorical ‘ornament’  —for Lysias must thou bring forth, to proclaim his virtues, a hymn that shall live among the dead and be immortal in the darkness, and shall show to all men the love that is in my heart and the virtues which were his that is gone.    CURFRAG.tlg-0257.1  
Plutarch  Lives of the Ten Orators     
APHAREUS 
See also Isocr.  Ep.  8. 1, Dem. 47. 31, 52. 14, Harp. s.v., Plut.  Vit. Orat.  838, Dion. Hal.  Isocr.  18,  Dein.  13,  Dem. et Arist.  2, Phot.  Bibl.  487 b. 23, 488 a. 8, C.I.A. 2. 977. b.5. Aphareus: —Of Athens; orator; son of the sophist Hippias and Plathane; stepson of the orator Isocrates; he flourished in the 95th Olympiad （400-397 B.C.） along with Plato the philosopher.   Suidas   Lexicon:   
It is true that Aphareus wrote speeches both forensic and deliberative, but these were not many; he also wrote about 37 tragedies, two of which are of doubtful authenticity. His first play was produced in the archonship of Lysistratus （369）, and in the 27 years down to that of Sosigenes （342） he entered six tetralogies at the City Dionysia and won there twice under the name of Dionysius, and twice at the Lenaea under other names. he prob. wrote a life of Isocrates, cf.  Vit. Isocr.  W 258    Plutarch   Lives of the Ten Orators    
inscription 
Isocrates then married Plathane, the widow of the orator Hippias, a woman with three children, of whom he adopted, as aforesaid, Aphareus, who set up a bronze statue of him upon a pillar near the Olympieum, with the following inscription:
This image of his father Isocrates was dedicated to Zeus by Aphareus in honour of the Gods and the virtues of his parents.    CURFRAG.tlg-1150.1  
Plutarch  Lives of the Ten Orators     
SPEUSIPPUS 
Speusippus: —Son of Eurymedon, nephew of Plato the philosopher ... disciple of Plato himself, and his successor in the Academy in the 108th Olympiad （348-5 B.C.）. He wrote a great many works, particularly on philosophy. He was austere in disposition and exceedingly quick-tempered.   Suidas   Lexicon   
It is said that the Athenian Speusippus was so fond of money that he composed frigid poems to celebrate Casander's marriage and went and sang them publicly in Macedonia for a fee.   Philostratus   Life of Apollonius   
: He left a very large number of  Notes  and several  Dialogues  including ... a  Eulogy of Plato  .   Diogenes Laertius   Lives of the Philosophers   
inscription 
Speusippus: —
Plato's body lies here in the bosom of Earth, but his godlike soul hath her place among the Blessed. cf. Diog. L. 3. 44, who adds ‘the son of Ariston, whom good men honour though they dwell afar, because he discerned the life divine’     CURFRAG.tlg-1692.1  
Planudean Anthology   
ARISTOTLE 
Aristotle: —Son of Nicomachus and Phaestias ... of Stageira a city of Thrace; philosopher; pupil of Plato ... He was for thirteen years head of the school of philosophy which was known as the Peripatetic because he taught in the walk or garden after he withdrew from the Academy, which was the teaching-place of Plato. He was born in the 99th Olympiad （384-1 B.C.）, and died at Chalcis of a draught of aconite which he took because he was impeached for writing a Paean in honour of Hermeias the Eunuch. Some writers, however, declare that he died of disease at the age of seventy. cf. Diog. L. 5. 6, who makes him 63    Suidas   Lexicon   
epic and elegiac 
: He wrote a very great number of works, the names of which, in view of the man's excellence in every kind, I have thought it to the purpose to subjoin ...  Epic Poems     or  lines  beginning
Holy one, Chiefest of Gods, far-darting ... Apollo     CURFRAG.tlg-0086.1  
Elegiac Poems     or  lines  beginning 
Daughter of a Mother of fair offspring these are the last in the list of nearly 400 works     CURFRAG.tlg-0086.2  
Diogenes Laertius  Lives of the Philosophers   
Not only does Aristotle praise Plato in a  Eulogy  , but in the  Elegiacs to Eudemus  he eulogises Plato in his praise of Eudemus, writing as follows:
And coming to the renowned plain of Cecropia he built a slight and not improbable emendation makes this ‘thou didst build’; in either case the subjt. is presumably Eudemus （of Cyprus）  an altar in honour of the holy Friendship of one whom it were not right for the bad even to praise, one who was the first if not the only man to show forth plainly by his own life and methods of discourse how we may become both good and happy, and without whom no man can ever receive this blessing.   i.e.  be both good and happy: cf. Ammon.  Vit. Arist.  399 W （‘because he dedicated an altar to Plato’ on which he wrote: ‘2-3’） and Scholia to Arist.     CURFRAG.tlg-0086.3  
Olympiodorus on Plato  
He withdrew to Chalcis because he was indicted for impiety by the hierophant Eurymedon —or according to the
Miscellaneous History  of Favorinus, by Demophilus, the accusation being that he had composed the  Hymn   see  L.G.  iii. 410  to the aforesaid Hermeias, and also the following inscription for his statue at Delphi:
This man in impious violation of the sacred law of the Blessed was slain by the king of the bowmen of Persia, who overcame him not in bloody spear-fight openly, but by use of his trust in a treacherous man. cf. Pap. Didym. in Dem. 6. 36  Berl. Klass. texte  i. 27     CURFRAG.tlg-0086.4  
Diogenes Laertius  Lives of the Philosophers     
CRATES 
See also Sext. Emp.  Hypot.  3. 200, Ath. 10. 422c, Luc.  Gall.  20, Plut.  Tranq.  4, Demetr.  Eloc.  170 and C.'s  Life  in Diogenes Laertius. Crates: —Son of Ascondas, of Thebes. He too was one of the famous disciples of the Dog （i.e. Diogenes） ... He flourished in the 113th Olympiad （328-5 b.c.）   Diogenes Laertius  Lives of the Philosophers   
Of Phryne herself the Thespians made a gold statue and dedicated it upon a column of Pentelic marble at Delphi; it was the work of Praxiteles. When Crates the Cynic saw it he exclaimed ‘Dedicated by the incontinence of the Greeks.’ cf. Plut.  Pyth. Or.  14,  Alex. Fort.  2. 3    Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
Some have made exile and loss of their goods a means to leisure and the study of philosophy, for instance Diogenes and Crates. cf. Luc.  D.M.  11, 27; Plut. wrote a  Life of Crates  , cf. Jul.  Or.  6. 200 b, Apost. 17. 75     Plutarch  How to Benefit by our Enemies   
We are told that when Demetrius of Phalerum was banished his country and was living in obscurity and mean circumstances near Thebes, he was little pleased to see Crates approach, expecting to be treated with the outspokenness and harshness of the Cynics. But when Crates addressed him kindly and spoke of banishment, saying that it had no sting, and a man rid once for all of dangers and uncertainties had no cause to bewail his lot, and at the same time urging him to have confidence in himself and his condition, he took heart of grace and exclaimed to his friends ‘Fie on the labours and distractions which prevented me from knowing such a man as this!’   Plutarch  How to tell a Flatterer from a Friend   
‘Crates lets go of Crates’ goods lest Crates' goods out-Crates Crates’:   lit.  overcome Crates; but there is a pun in the Gk.  It seems that Crates, a Boeotian by extraction, desiring to adopt the Cynic philosophy, took his possessions and threw them to the people, making the above proverb-like pronouncement. cf. fr. 20    Apostolius Proverbs  
1. Elegiac Poems 
Lest anyone think me to be speaking without book, I will subjoin a few passages from the Toys or Humorous Poems of Crates: parody of Sol. fr. 13: cf. Jul.  Or.  7. 213a 
Splendid Children of Memory and Olympian Zeus, give ear, Pierian Muses, unto my prayer. Grant fodder without fail unto my belly, which hath ever made my living of the frugalest short of slavery ... one line （prob. only one, cf. Sol.） lost  Make me rather profitable than pleasant to my friends. Fine possessions I wish not to gather, as who should crave the wealth of a beetle or the riches of an ant, but my prayer is to partake of righteousness and win a prosperity that is borne easily and gotten easily, valuable unto virtue. The which if I get, I will propitiate Hermes and the holy Muses not with rich spendings but with pure virtues.    CURFRAG.tlg-0336.1  
Julian  Orations   
Hymn to Thrift  
Crates moreover composed a  Hymn to Thrift  : Jul. has lines 1-2,  A.P.  10. 104. 1-3, cf. Clem. Al.  Paed.  3. 53. 3, Apost. 8. 13a 
Hail, thou Goddess Queen, darling of the wise, Thrift that art sprung of renown'd Temperance; thy virtues are honoured by all who practise righteousness.    CURFRAG.tlg-0336.2  
Julian  Orations   
ii Epic Poems 
But you, who think so much of Aristarchus, turn a deaf ear to Crates when he reads:
Ocean, that is the father of them all, Both men and Gods, pours over much o' th' earth. parody of Homer; Plut. playfully suggests that line 2 was interpolated by C. into the text     CURFRAG.tlg-0336.3  
Plutarch  The Face in the Moon   
: And again, on seeing Crates pinched with the cold in winter, he remarked ‘You seem to me, Crates, to need a  new coat  ’  ; annoyed by this, Crates replied with the following parody: cf. Hes. Mil. 52: the 1st line substitutes  Stilpo  for the  Tantalus  of  Od.  Il. 582 （cf. Plat.  Prot.  315 c）, the 2nd  at Megara  for  among the Arimi  in  Il.  5. 783, the 3rd  there wrangled he  for  he shall lie wounded  in  Il.  8. 537 
And Stilpo eke saw I in toilsome woe At Megara, the Gk. also means  in the mansion    where' tis said Typhoeus sleeps; the discomfort of the Titan Typhoeus under Etna was said to cause the eruptions, cf. Pind.  P  .i. 15  There wrangled he, with comrades thronged, and ran A letter-shifting goose-chase after Virtue. cf. Arist.  Rhet.  3. Il;  τὸ παρὰ γράμμα  is used loosely of any kind of pun     CURFRAG.tlg-0336.4  
Diogenes Laertius  Lives of the Philosophers   
: He appears to have thought quite enough of himself; and so is thus taken off by Crates:
Asclepiades of Phlius and the Bull Eretrian cf. Hes. Mil.36: parodying the story of Theseus and the Marathonian Bull, Eretria being M.'s birthplace and Ascl. the friend with whom he attended, after abandoning Plato, the lectures of Stilpo at Megara     CURFRAG.tlg-0336.5  
Diogenes Laertius  Lives of the Philosophers   
Do you not see that there is much to be got both from land and sea? without need to borrow  And yet in Crates' words: Plut. takes  καὶ μὴν  which in Crates means  and moreover  as meaning  and yet   
And Micylus saw I half a line left out by Plut.; parody of  Od.  Il. 593 ‘And Sisyphus saw I in bitter woe’: M. is a poor tailor in Callim.  Ep.  26 and in Luc.  Gall.  and  Catapl.    ..... Carding some wool, his goodwife carding too, Fleeing from Famine in a death-grip dire. parody of  Od.  12. 257 ‘stretching to me their hands in death-grip dire,’of the companions of Odysseus being devoured by Scylla 
CURFRAG.tlg-0336.6  
Plutarch  Against Borrowing   
THE WALLET  
The following Toys or humorous verses of his are well known:
Wallet's a town i' th' wine-dark sea of Folly; Fair 'tis and fat, all dirt, parody of  Od.  19.172 ‘Crete is a country in the wine-dark sea; | Fair 'tis and fat, sea-girt’  and ne'er a groat in 't. Thither ne'er sails the foolish parasite Nor lickerish catamite with watering mouth, But thyme it bears and garlic, figs and loaves; O'er these things ne'er do her possessors quarrel Nor stand to arms for farthings or for fame. cf. Demetr.  Eloc.  259 （1）, Apul.  Apol.  22 （1）, Clem. Al.  Paed.  2. 93.4     CURFRAG.tlg-0336.7  
Diogenes Laertius  Lives of the Philosophers     
And Antisthenes prefers madness to pleasure, and the Theban Crates says:
And those she sways in pride that such they be Serve neither gold nor loves that waste the wits, Nor have they truck with wanton violence;     CURFRAG.tlg-0336.8  
and he sums up thus: 
Unbound, unbent by Pleasure's servitude, Their queen's immortal Freedom whom they love. cf. Theodoret  Gr. Aff.  12. 49     CURFRAG.tlg-0336.9  
Clement of Alexandria  Miscellanies   
Now Crates, who believed that discord and despotism were chiefly due to luxury and extravagance, gave the following humorous advice:
Embroil us not by making more of a pot than pottage. cf. Ath. 4. 158 b     CURFRAG.tlg-0336.10  
Plutarch  Precepts of Health   
And what is there distressing or painful about poverty? Were not Crates and Diogenes poor? Yet how easily did they live! They became humble men and beggars, and able to put up with a cheap and simple way of life. Are you oppressed with difficulties and debts? Then in Crates' words,
Gather but beans and cockles in a pot, And you shall triumph over Penury.    CURFRAG.tlg-0336.11  
Teles in Stobaeus  Anthology   
: There is also this of his:
My lore, my thoughts, and what the Muse hath given Of pride, are mine; my great wealth 's gone to smoke. parody of the paraphrase of part of the supposed inscription on the tomb of Sardanapalus: Strabo 14. 672 gives Choerilus' translation （?） of the Assyrian a‘ Eat, drink, play; for all else is not worth this’ （  i.e.  a snap of the fingers], adding ‘moreover the following epic version is current “My food, my triumphs, and what Love hath given | Of joy, are mine; my great wealth all is gone”’ （A.P. 7. 325 for  triumphs  reads  drink  , but see Choer. ap. Str.）; cf. Cram. A.O. 4. 219, Plut.  de Se Laud.  17,  A.P.  7. 326, Sch. Ar.  Av.  1021, Chrysipp. ap. Ath. 7. 337 a, Phoen. Col. ap. Ath. 530e     CURFRAG.tlg-0336.12  
Diogenes Laertius  Lives of the Philosophers   
: When he had been flogged by the gymnasium-master at Thebes —or according to another version by Euthycrates at Corinth —and was being dragged by the heels, he remarked unconcernedly:
Hale by the foot across the heavenly threshold from  Il.  I.591 where Hephaestus says ‘hurled （me） by the foot from off the heavenly threshold’     CURFRAG.tlg-0336.13  
Diogenes Laertius  Lives of the Philosophers   
: Feeling that death was near, he sang himself the following incantation:
Hunchback, you're on the way to Hades' home.    CURFRAG.tlg-0336.14  
For time had bowed his back.    Diogenes Laertius  Lives of the Philosophers   
Crates calls flatterers syncataneusiphagous, that is
eaters by mutual consent.   i.e.  they get their keep in return for their flattery     CURFRAG.tlg-0336.15  
Stobaeus  Anthology     
iambi 
see fr. 23 n2  : There is also the well-known  Ledger  which runs as follows:
Put down ‘Cook—forty pounds; Surgeon—a shilling; Flatterer—a thousand guineas; Mentor—smoke; Harlot—two hundred pounds; Wise man rthree pence.’    CURFRAG.tlg-0336.16  
Diogenes Laertius  Lives of the Philosophers   
What Crates says savours well:
Thou know'st not how great strength there lies in these —  A wallet, a peck of pease, and never a care. cf. Diog. L. 6. 86 
CURFRAG.tlg-0336.17  
Teles in Stobaeus  Anthology   
: This also of his is well known:
Love's checked by hunger, failing that, by time; And if you cannot wait, a running noose. cf. Jul. Or. 6. 198 d, Suid.  Κράτης  ,  Paroem.  2 p. 754, Clem. Al.  Str.  2. 121. 2, Theodoret 12. 172;  A.P.  9.497 expands line 2 into ‘and if this will not quench the flame, your sole resource is to know a halter’ （but there are difficulties in the Gk. text） 
CURFRAG.tlg-0336.18  
Diogenes Laertius  Lives of the Philosophers   
Crates: —
I'm bent by Time, the great artificer, Who being deft yet weakens all he makes.    CURFRAG.tlg-0336.19  
Stobaeus  Anthology     
Crates from Antiphanes:—   or, emending the Gk.  from the poem to Antiphanes 
You taunt me with my age as 't were an ill; Yet he that gets not Eld is put to death, And all desire it; but and if it come We are sorry; such is man's ingratitude. cf. Theogn. 819     CURFRAG.tlg-0336.20  
Stobaeus  Anthology     
And even poverty, Epictetus would say, is nothing terrible, or it would have seemed so to Crates of Thebes, who only considered himself free when he had given up his possessions to his country. Then, saying ‘Crates robs,’ etc. he put a wreath as of freedom upon his head because he had exchanged poverty for affluence.
Crates robs Crates of his chattels, lest They come to be possessor, he possest. Crates of Thebes hereby sets Crates free. the passage of Simpl. seems to imply that 21 came near to 20, but it was not necessarily part of the same piece 
CURFRAG.tlg-0336.21  
Simplicius on Epictetus  
Crates ... saying ‘Crates of Thebes sets Crates free.’   Isidore of Pelusium  Letters   
... rushing out into the marketplace, he threw away his possessions like a load of refuse that gave more trouble than it was worth, and cried to the crowd that gathered ‘Crates sets Crates free.’   Apuleius  Florida   
Crates the philosopher ... philosophising said: ‘Crates sets free the goods of Crates lest they come to be the possessor and he the possessed.’   John of Damascus  
Crates in like manner setting himself above riches, and turning his goods into a sheepwalk   i.e.  laying them waste, destroying them  as being abettors of vice and makers of slaves, rose above an altar and made loud proclamation as though in the midst of Olympia, to this wondrous effect, ‘Crates of Thebes’ etc., knowing that the possession of goods is servitude.   Gregory of Nazianzus  Poems   
Crates:—This man turned his goods into a sheepwalk, and rising upon the altar said: ‘Crates of Thebes,’ etc.   Suidas  Lexicon   
It is said that the same Crates —or, as some say, another philosopher equally wise —when a storm arose at sea and the ship was in danger of foundering because of her freight, threw his goods （  or  money） overboard with this memorable remark:
Thanks to thee, Luck, who s't taught me what is good, How easily a smock holds all I am! in the Greek there is prob. a play on two meanings of  συστλέλλομαι  , to cut down or reduce, and to wrap up     CURFRAG.tlg-0336.22  
Gregory of Nazianzus  （continuing）   
If that quantity of corn was sold at that price in your city in summer, what were you to expect at the season of the year when, in the words of the Boeotian poet,
'Tis hard there should be dearth in harvest-time.    CURFRAG.tlg-0336.23  
Julian  Beard-hater:   
Tragedies 
some of the above iambic fragments may belong under this heading There is also current a work of Crates entitled  Letters,  containing excellent philosophy and in a style sometimes approaching Plato's. He also wrote  Tragedies,  which display a philosophy of a very high type; compare:
Not one tower only hath my home, nor roof; The house and citadel of all dry land Is, for the taking, mine to dwell therein. Dummler compares Anon. Trag. 392 Nauck （prob. the orig. of C's lines） and Teles ap. Stob.  Fl.  40. 8 （which suggests that the speaker is Heracles）     CURFRAG.tlg-0336.24  
Diogenes Laertius  Lives of the Philosophers:   
CASTORION 
None    
Elegiac 
To Pan  
The poem to Pan by Castorion of Soli, according to Clearchus, is of this kind: each of its feet beginning and ending without breaking a word, it has all its ‘meters’ the Gk. has ‘feet,’ but this must be a mistake; a ‘meter’ contains two feet  interchangeable  , thus: the translation attepmts no more than an English version of the Gk. words 
O Thou that hast thy dwelling in Arcadias's snow-storm-beaten land, Thee Pan, thou herdsman of wild beasts, will I praise with an all-famous compound of verse in this cunning style, verse hard, Lord, for the unskilled to understand; O Beast that servest the Muses, and utterest wax-poured   i.e.  poured from the wax-jointed Pan-pipes  charms ...    CURFRAG.tlg-0382.1  
and the rest in the same way. Now each of these ‘meters,’ the Gk. has ‘feet,’ but this must be a mistake; a ‘meter’ contains two feet  whatever its position in the line, will give the same metre or rhythm, thus 
σὲ τὸν βολαῖς νιφοκτύποις δυσχείμερον
CURFRAG.tlg-0382.2  
and 
νιφοκτύποις σὲ τὸν βολαῖς δυσχείμερον.
CURFRAG.tlg-0382.3  
Note too that each of the ‘meters' consists of eleven letters. true except for the last line, where therefore we should read the Doric form  μωσοπόλε  for
μουσοπόλε       Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
To Dionysus  
In the procession of the Dionysia which he celebrated when he was archon （in 309 B.C.） the chorus sang in his honour a poem by Castorion  the mss have  Seiron  or omit the name  of Soli, in which he was called Sun-like, thus:
and before all others the high-born Sun-like Archon extolleth Thee with holy honours. the metre is melic     CURFRAG.tlg-0382.4  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
CLEON 
None.    
Elegiac Poems 
cf. Curt. 8. 5. 8 for a long story connecting him with Alexander ‘Well-housed’ ... from
βαυρία  which in Messapian means ‘house’; compare Cleon the elegiac writer:
This done, they assembled themselves together from their houses, the sturdy young of the Gorgon-slayer. perh. means the Persians with a pun on  Perseus       CURFRAG.tlg-1273.1  
Etymologicum Magnum   ευ）βύριον   
THEOCRITUS OF CHIOS 
—Of Chios: orator; pupil of Metrodorus of the school of Isocrates. He wrote  Maxims  or  Citations.  He was a political opponent of the historian Theopompus. cf. Str. 14. 645; Theop. also was a Chian  His works now current are a  History of Libya  and  Wonderful Letters.     Suidas   Lexicon : Theocritus  
Antigonus the one-eyed king of Macedon he greatly provoked by reproaching him with his defect. One day, when Theocritus was not yet in his place at table, the king sent his chief cook Eutropion to request him to come to him and explain matters. When the cook had come and given his message more than once, Theocritus exclaimed ‘I know you're willing to serve me up raw to the Cyclops,’ thus reproaching the king with his defect and the cook with his profession. ‘Very well,’ rejoined the cook, ‘you'll pay for not keeping your silly mouth shut by losing your head,’ and so went back and told the king, who sent and put Theocritus to death.   Plutarch   Education     
Once, too, Alexander wrote to the cities of Ionia, beginning with Chios, to send him purple, his object being to clothe all his suite in purple robes. Theocritus the sophist was present when the letter was read to the Chians, and exclaimed that he now understood Homer's line:
was ta'en of purple death and forceful fate.    Hom. Il. 5.83 the original is ‘his eyes were ta'en,’ etc.; the meaning of purple in this passage is still in doubt: cf.  A.P.  9. 434   
Athenaeus   Doctors at Dinner   
... like Theocritus who, when two men, one a stranger and the other a known thief, asked the loan of his strigil or skin-scraper at the baths, put them off with a jest, exclaiming ‘You I don't know and you I do.’   Plutarch   Shamefacedness   
Theopompus of Chios in his  Counsels to Alexander  says of his fellow-citizen Theocritus ‘He drinks out of silver and gold and uses other such vessels for the service of the table, though once, far from being able to drink from cups of silver, he could not even afford cups of bronze, but had to be content with earthenware, and that often half-broken.’   Athenaeus   Doctors at Dinner   
Theocritus of Chios, when asked how we should live the best and most righteous lives, answered ‘If we refrain from doing ourselves what we blame others for doing.’       Munich Anthology   
‘No man ever won virtue including excellence of all kinds  by audacity, but rather by nobility of character and reasonableness:’ Theocritus. the citation as it stands is very nearly metrical    Apostolius   Proverbs   
Inscription 
According to Bryon in his treatise  On Theocritus  , Theocritus of Chios composed an  Inscription  upon him:
To Hermias the Eunuch, slave of Eubulus, this empty tomb was raised by the empty-minded Aristotle, who respecting the lawless other cit. have ‘unrestrained’  nature of his belly chose to dwell at the mouth of the Borborus instead of in the Academy. the suggestion is that Arist. withdrew to Macedonia because he could not earn a livelihood at Athens     CURFRAG.tlg-1714.1  
Plutarch  Exile  : Aristotle was abused by Theocritus of Chios because he was content with his life at the courts of Philip and Alexander, saying ‘chose to dwell’ etc. It seems there is a river near Pella called by the Macedonians Borborus or Mud. cf. Euseb.  Praep. Ev.  15. 793, Apost. 6. 38 a; Diog. L. 5. 11 （1-2）     Didymus  On Demosthenes  , from a 2nd-Century Papyrus  
MENANDER 
From the time when Cassander returned to Macedonia ... 52 years, in the archonship of Democleides at Athens （316-3 B.C.）. This was the year when the comic poet Menander won his first victory at Athens.    Parian Chronicle   
O Menander and Life, which of you imitated the other?    Aristophanes of Byzantium  
Inscriptions 
Menander the comic poet; on Epicurus and Themistocles:
Hail twin Neocleids, saviours of our country, the one from servitude, the other from senselessness! both had fathers called Neocles 
CURFRAG.tlg-0541.1  
Palatine Anthology:   
From Menander:
Enjoy your goods as mortal, see to them as though immortal; in both there is fate to be feared. the lost original was prob. before Lucian （?） when he wrote ‘Enjoy thy goods as about to die, but spare them as though about to live; wise is he who measures thrift and unthrift with understanding of both these things’; perh. M. wrote ‘in both there's due measure   to be observed ’ 
CURFRAG.tlg-0541.2  
Ausonius  Epigrams:   
PANARCES 
None.    
Riddle 
And there is the following one by Panarces, according to Clearchus in his treatise On Riddles, that etc.
'Tis fabled that a man and not a man Saw and saw not a bird and not a bird Upon a tree and no tree, and struck at it And struck not with a stone and not a stone.     CURFRAG.tlg-0256.1  
..that is, a eunuch, a bat, a fennel, and a bit of pumice. the word translated ‘strike’ can mean both ‘to aim at’ and ‘to hit’; cf. Sch. Arist. 4. 14, Eust. 713. 10, Suid.  αἶνος  , Trypho  Rh. Gr.  8. 736 W, Choerob.  Rh. Gr.  Spengel 3. 253, Phot.  νυκτερίδος αἶνος    For mentions of other Elegiac poems or poets of the Athenian Age see Paus. 5. 25. 4 （Hippias）, Diog. L. 2. 104 （Theodorus, cf. Ath. 3. 122 b, 14. 618 e?）, Aeschin. in  Tim.  136 （Aeschines）.     Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner     
It is like the  equivoques  at a dinner-party, or the children's riddle about the eunuch who struck at the bat and what it was perched on and what the missile was.   Plato  Republic   
A riddle （recorded） by Clearchus   Scholiast on Plato  Republic   
ARCHILOCHUS> 
Far though I be, I have seen the chiding Archilochus in manifold want, with nought to fatten him but heavy-worded hatreds.   Pindar  Pythians:   
... Gyges, who is mentioned in an iambic trimeter by his contemporary Archilochus of Paros （fr. 25）. cf. Phot.  Bibl.  319. b. 27    Herodotus  Histories:   
From the  o  418 years, in the archonship of Lysiades at Athens. 681 B.C. （Cyril  c. Jul.  i. 12 gives Ol. 23,  i.e.  678-5）      Parian Chronicle:   
But Aristarchus in his  Notes on Archilochus  makes Homer contemporary with the colonisation of Ionia.   Clement of Alexandria  Miscellanies   
: It is not quite clear with what the passengers （in Charon's boat） are concerned.   i.e.  what they have to do with the picture of Odysseus in Hades  Tellis prob. a short form of Telesicles （  see below  ）  appears to be about eighteen years of age, Cleoboea still a girl, and is holding in her lap a casket of the shape of those made for Demeter. With regard to Tellis I was told this much, that the poet Archilochus was descended from him in the second generation; and it was Cleoboea, they say, who introduced the worship of Demeter into Thasos from Paros.   Pausanias  Description of Greece   
Thasos: ... The great height of Thasos appears from the oracle given to the father of Archilochus:   Tell unto the Parians, O son of Telesicles, that I bid thee found a far-seen city in a lofty isle.      Stephanus of Byzantium  Lexicon:   
As Cratinus says in his  Archilochuses  . cf. Plut.  Cim.  10. 3, Ath. 14. 644 b （Alexis' comedy  Archilochus  ）    Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
The iambus is the invention of Archilochus of Paros.   Clement of Alexandria  Miscellanies   
Semonides is made contemporary with Archilochus, and Callinus comes a little earlier, Archilochus speaking of Magnesia as destroyed and Callinus as still flourishing. Eumelus of Corinth is said to have belonged to an earlier date and been contemporary with Archias the founder of Syracuse.    Clement of Alexandria  Miscellanies   
. . the hymn of the wine-stricken Archilochus.   Callimachus  
You are thumbing cf. Ar. Av. 471;  or  treading on  Archilochus: —a proverb applied to those who revile others, Archilochus being one of these.   Diogen.  Proverbs:   
Beware, beware! I'm a tough fellow with horns ready for the wicked, like him to whom the false Lycambes would not give his daughter, or him that was so fierce a foe to Bupalus.   Horace  Epodes:   
He means Archilochus, who attacked Lycambes so bitterly with abusive verses that he committed suicide. Archilochus attacked him because he denied him his daughter's hand after promising it.   Scholiast on Horace  Epodes:   
I it was that first gave Latium the Parian Iambic, copying Archilochus in metre and spirit, but not in matter nor the words that assailed Lycambes. And should you be disposed to skimp my crown because I have feared to change the rule and rhythm of his song, remember, pray, that virile Sappho shapes her Muse by his measure, and Alcaeus too, yet his themes are different and the order of his lines; he seeks no father-in-law to bespatter with black verse nor knots a halter of defaming song for his bride-to-be. cf. Hor.  Sat.  2. 3. 12, Jul.  Mis.  337 a, Euseb.  Praep. Ev.  5. 228 ff    Horace  Epistles:   
Wrath armed Archilochus with her own Iambic.   Horace  Art of Poetry:   
Some day, if you stay not your hand, my outspoken iambic will furnish me against you with arrows dipt in Lycambean blood.   Ovid  Ibis:   
It should be noted that literature has many cases of self-hanging for grief, and this was the death, according to the old story, of the daughters mss ‘sons’  of Lycambes, who could not withstand the onslaught of the satire of Archilochus.   Eustathius  On the Odyssey   
The Spartans ordered that the books of Archilochus should be removed from their state because they considered them indecent, and would not have their children indoctrinated with writings which might do more harm to their morals than good to their wits.   Valerius Maximus  Memorable Deeds and Sayings:   
Moreover, if we may believe Pindar, Terpander was the originator of drinkingsongs. But it must be remembered that further innovations were made by Archilochus, the trimeter, the combination of unlike measures, the recitative or rhythmical recitation of poetry to music, cf. Ath. 14. 636 b  and the style of music to which recitative was set. To him also are ascribed the epode, the tetrameter, the cretic, the prosodiac, and the lengthening of the ‘heroic’ or dactylic hexameter; and some authorities would add the elegiac, and not only that, but the combination of the epibatic paeon with the iambic, and that of the lengthened ‘heroic’ with the prosodiac and the cretic. He is also credited with the device of reciting some of a number of iambic lines to music and singing the others, a device afterwards employed by the tragic poets and introduced by Crexus into the dithyramb. He is also thought to have been the first to set the music of the accompanying instrument an octave higher than the voice, instead of in the same register with it as had been the custom before his day. cf. Ael.  V.H.  12. 50    Plutarch  Music:   
We are told by Chamaeleon in his book  On Steichorus  that not only the poems of Homer but of Hesiod and Archilochus, and even of Mimnermuus and Phocylides, were sung to music.   Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
Compare Clearchus in the first of his two Books  On Riddles:  ‘It was the habit of Simonides of Zacynthus to recite the poems of Archilochus seated in a chair at the theatre.’    Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
A foot less and it will be the ithyphallic, which was invented by Archilochus and consists of three trochees,  e.g. Bacche plaude Bacche,  a rhythm composed, they say, by the poet in honour of the God herein addressed.   Marius Victorinus  Art of Grammar:   
There is also the dimeter called Archilochian,  e.g. beatus ille qui procul.     Marius Victorinus  Art of Grammar:     
A perfect poet should have his ‘breaks’ or rhythmic modulations smooth and sonorous. Those which are the reverse should be learnt, one may say, not to be imitated but to be avoided. Of these latter, as of several others, the parent and originator, we are told, was Archilochus, who showed a talent quite unique for inventing and constructing new metres, and was the first to employ ‘epodes,’ that is, stanzas of a long and a short line, taking a single colon from his metre and putting it underneath; for instance in the heroic with which he begins,  e.g. diffugere nives redeunt iam gramina campi  , followed by an epode of the same metrical type,  arboribusque comae.     Marius Victorinus  Art of Grammar:   
The poet Archilochus was killed by a man named Corax or Crow, to whom, we are told, the Pythian priestess gave the answer ‘Leave the temple,’ whereupon he cried ‘But, Lord, I am pure of ill; I slew him in fair fight.’   Heracleides  Constitutions:   
The man who killed Archilochus in the fight was called, it seems, Callondes, Euseb.  Praep. Ev.  5. 33. 227 ff （q.v.） calls him  Archias  and speaks of the poet as ‘long dead’ at the time  but nicknamed Corax. Accused by the priestess of having slain a man sacred to the Muses, he fell a-praying and a-supplicating with protests of innocence, and was bidden go to the ‘dwelling-place of the cricket’ （  tettix  ） to appease Archilochus' ghost. This was Taenarum, whither they say Tettix the Cretan came by sea and founded a city hard by the Place of Ghost-Raising. the oracle was ambiguous; A.'s nickname seems to have been  The Cricket  , from his comparison of himself to a  tettix  , cf. fr. 143    Plutarch  The Slow Vengeance of the Deity     
The man who killed him was driven from his temple by Apollo, who gave answer that he had slain a servitor of the Muses, and when he protested that it was in war, said again ‘Archilochus a servitor of the Muses;’ moreover when the poet's father had enquired of the God before his birth, Apollo had foretold that he would beget a son who should be immortal.   Dio Chrysostom  Orations     
The Parians have honoured Archilochus despite his slanderous tongue. cf. Plat.  Ion  531a    Aristotle  Rhetoric:   
According to Hermippus in his tract  On Gorgias  , when Gorgias visited Athens after dedicating the golden portrait of himself at Delphi, Plato at sight of him exclaimed ‘The good and golden Gorgias is come to visit us,’ and Gorgias cried ‘I congratulate Athens on the birth of a new Archilochus.’   Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
Therein too the flower of the dread crisp-haired thistle of Archilochus, little drops from the ocean.   i.e.  few epigrams in comparison with all he wrote; cf.  A.P.  9. 185 （a title-motto for A.'s works）    Meleager  Garland:   
But I ask you whether —I do not say Homer, Pindar, or Archilochus, but —Pheidias, Polycleitus, or Zeuxis, appear to you to have practised their respective arts for the sake of pleasure? cf. Dio Chr. 2. 18    Cicero  On the Chief Good and the Chief Evil:   
As for your fearing you prove garrulous, is that likely between me and you? No, no; the longer your letters the better, as Aristophanes said of the iambic poems of Archilochus.   Cicero  Letters to Atticus:   
Bibulus, in a truly Archilochian edict, has postponed the elections to the 18th October.   Cicero  Letters to Atticus:   
Thus out of the three iambic writers of Aristarchus' canon, the writer that attains the highest degree of facility is Archilochus, in whom we find the greatest force of expression, a phrasing not only telling but terse and vigorous, and abundance of blood and muscle; indeed some critics hold that where he falls short it is a defect rather of his theme than of his genius.    Quintilian  Guide to Oratory:   
Was Herodotus the only true imitator of Homer? Stesichorus was that before him, and Archilochus.      On the Sublime:   
. . . Would you therefore rather be Apollonius than Homer? Again, Eratosthenes in the  Erigone  in every respect a flawless little poem, —is he a greater poet than Archilochus, who carries along with his flood so much which is lacking in arrangement and yet comes from the almost uncontrollable inflow of the divine spirit?      On the Sublime:   
It was from this source （the Myth or Tale） that the poets derived the Fable . . . Next to Hesiod comes Archilochus, who not infrequently used the Myth the Fable?  as a sort of relish to his poetry.   Julian  Orations:   
. . . Apollonius of Rhodes in his treatise On Archilochus.   Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
Cato was so consumed with indignation （at being baulked of his bride） that he at first sought to have the law of Scipio, and when his friends dissuaded him betook himself in a storm of anger to the writing of iambic verse, in which he showered insults upon him, employing the venom of Archilochus without the licence or the naivete.   Plutarch  Life of Cato the Younger:   
—Stand and look at Archilochus, the old maker of iambic verse, whose infinite renown hath spread both to utmost East and furthest West. Sure the Muses and Delian Apollo liked him well, such taste and skill had he to bring both to the framing of the words and to the singing of them to the lyre.     Palatine Anthology:  Leonidas: inscription for a statue, also ascribed to Theocritus   
—This tomb by the sea is the grave of Archilochus, who first dipt a bitter Muse in snake-venom and stained gentle Helicon with blood; witness Lycambes bewailing the hanging of daughters three. Pass softly by, good wayfarer, or you'll rouse the wasps that settle on his tomb. See also Orig.  Cels.  3. 125, Phot.  Bibl.  437 b. 36, A.P. 7. 69, 70, 351-2, 664, 674, 11. 20, Luc.  Am.  3, Mart. 7. 26, Mar. Vict.  Gr. Lat.  6. 1. p. 79 K, Vell. i. 5, Diog. L. 9. 1, Plut.  Aud. Poet.  13. 45 a, Philod.  ap.  de Falco  Aegyptus  1922. p. 287.      Palatine Anthology:  Gaetulicus  
Elegiac Poems 
But the ancients held valour to be the greatest of the civic virtues . . . Archilochus, for instance, who was an excellent poet, first boasts of his ability to take part in political struggles, and then remembers his gift for poetry, in the words:
But I am a servitor of Lord Enyalius, and yet I am skilled in the lovely gift of the Muses.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.1  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   cf. Plut.  Phoc.  7, Themist.  Or.  15. 185, A.P. 9. 389, Theod. Prod. in  Excerpt. Bibl. Par.  6. 528     
cf. Eust.  Od.  1633. 48, Synes.  Ep.  129b Archilochus compares the wine of Naxos to nectar; compare:
In the spear is my kneaded bread, in the spear my Ismarian wine, when I drink I recline on the spear.     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.2  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
The Abantians were the first to cut their hair in this fashion, not as some writers believe because they learnt it from the Arabs, nor yet in emulation of the Mysians, but because they were warlike and willing to fight hand to hand, and had learnt better than any other people to bring their enemy to close quarters. Compare Archilochus:
Not so many bows shall be stretched nor slings so many slung when the War-God makes his mellay in the plain, but then shall be the woeful work of the sword; for this is the sort of battle the spear-famed lords of Euboea are masters in. ref. to the Lelantine War between Chalcis and Eretria （c. 790 B.C.）, who agreed not to use missile weapons, cf. A.R. Burn  J.H.S.  1929 33, Str. 10. 448 
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.3  
Thus they cut their hair short so as not to give their enemies a hold of their heads.    Plutarch  Life of Theseus:   
occurs in  Ox. Papp.  854 preceded by 5 fragmentary lines containing ‘strangers,’ ‘supper,’ ‘nor to me as,’ of which the 2nd prob. begins the poem, and is marked with the numeral 800 The  cothon  was a Spartan cup . . . it is mentioned as a cup by Archilochus in his   Elegiac Poems  thus:
Come, go then with a cup all along the benches of the swift ship and draw drink from the hollow tuns, draining the red wine to the lees; for we no more than other men can stay sober on this watch.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.4  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
cf.  E.M.  324 （Archilochus）,  O.P.  1087 col. 2. 56  τὸ σωλῆνος παρ᾽ Α᾿νανίῳ    When it comes after the preposition  διά,  the preposition  ἐξ  does not change the  ξ  to  κ  :
into a vessel through a pipe prob. of wine from a cask 
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.5  
Scholiast on the  Iliad     
cf. Str. 10. 457, 12. 549,  Vit. Arat.  76 M, Ar.  Pac.  1298 and Sch., Sext. Emp.  Hypot.  3. 182, Philostr.  Vit. Ap.  2. 7, Ael.  V.H.  10. 13, Eust. ad Dion. 5. 533 When the poet Archilochus visited Sparta he was driven out of the city at a moment's notice because they discovered that he had said in a poem that it was better to throw away one's arms than be slain:
The shield I left because I must, poor blameless armament! beside a bush, gives joy now to some Saian, a people of Thrace  but myself I have saved. What care I for that shield? It shall go with a curse. I'll get me another e'en as good.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.6  
Plutarch  Spartan Institutions:   
cf. Suid.  ἐξένισεν  and  ξένια   Wounds and slaughterings are the guest-gifts   of Ares; compare Archilochus:
favouring the foe with woesome guest-gifts     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.7  
Scholiast on Sophocles Electra    
cf.  E.M.  363. 44   ε）πίρρησις  : —censure or slander; whence moreover comes  ἐπίρρητος  , censured or slandered; compare Archilochus in the  Elegiacs  :
No man, Aesimides, would enjoy very many delights who heeded the censure of the people.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.8  
Orion  Etymologicum:   
Archilochus: cf. Philostr.  Vit. Ap.  7. 26,    Subl.  10 —
If he keep complaining of woeful misfortunes, cf. 66;  or, emending the Greek,  lamenting sad funerals  Pericles, no citizen will take pleasure in feasting, prob. the occasion of this song  nay, nor city neither. 'Tis true these noble souls have been whelmed in the roaring sea and our hearts well with grief; yet to woes incurable, my friend, the Gods have ordained the remedy of staunch endurance. Such things possess one man to-day, another to-morrow; and now they have turned our way and we bewail a bloody wound, but soon they will pass to others. Then quickly put thou womanish grief away, thou and thine, and endure.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.9  
Stobaeus  Anthology     
The word ‘gift’ is understood of bad fortune as well as good; compare Archilochus:
but let us hide the dreadful gifts of Lord Poseidon. corpses of the drowned     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.10  
Scholiast on Aeschylus  
:  θεσσάμενοι  ‘taking at request, begging for’; compare Archilochus:
in the deeps of the gray brine beseeching the fairtressed &lt;Pallas&gt;   or, without emendation,  long in the deeps, etc. beseeching the fair-tressed . . . for sweet return  for sweet return.     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.11  
Scholiast on Apollonius of Rhodes  
For instance Archilochus, when he says, praying: （fr. 75）, is clearly calling upon the God Himself; but when lamenting his sister's husband that was lost at sea and had no proper burial, he says that he would bear the disaster more patiently
if his head and his comely limbs had had Hephaestus' ministry in pure clean raiment corpses were clad in white 
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.12  
by this he means fire and not the Fire-God.    Plutarch  How the Young should Listen to Poetry:   
cf. Tz. ap. Matr.  An.  216 Archilochus again is not praised for combining grief at the loss of his sister's husband, who perished at sea, with thinking how to fight the grief with wine and jest; and yet he gives a reasonable excuse:
for I shall no more heal a wound by weeping than make it worse by pursuing joys and feasts.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.13  
Now if Archilochus considered that he would make nothing worse by being merry, we surely shall not be the worse off for putting up with what has befallen us and pursuing our studies, etc.    Plutarch  How the Young should Listen to Poetry:   
Of these kinds of friendships, the interested kind is that of the generality of men; for most of us love one another because, and only so far as, the other is useful to us, as the saying has it:
A soldier of fortune, Glaucus, is your friend so long as he fights.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.14  
Aristotle  Eudemian Ethics:   
cf. Max. Plan.  Rhet. Gr.  5. 441 W （where it is apparently ascribed to Phocyl.）, Syrian. in Hermog. i. 6. 12 R For in the words of Archilochus,
All things are made for mortals by human toil and care.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.15  
Joannes of Sicily  
:
'Tis fortune and fate, Pericles, that give a man all things.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.16  
Stobaeus  Selections   
: And ever after they were friends, sharing the man's love between them. The Ionians, as we find in Menetor's treatise
On Offerings  , thought this so extraordinary that they nicknamed Plangon Pasiphila or Friend-of-all, a name attested   or  and this is attested about her  by Archilochus in the lines:
As a fig-tree planted on a lofty rock 
Feeds many crows and jackdaws, so Pasiphila's 
A willing entertainer of all strangers.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.17  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
Inscriptions 
Archilochus: ascription doubtful 
Thou hast upon thee, great Earth, the high pillars of Naxos, Megatimus to wit and Aristophon.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.18  
Palatine Anthology:   
Archilochus: ascription doubtful 
Alcibia dedicated to Hera the holy veil of her hair when she became a wedded wife.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.19  
Palatine Anthology:   
Iambi 
Trimeters 
cf. Heracl. Pont.  Pol.  22, Suid.  τὰ Μαγν. κακά  , Ars. 442, Clem. Al.  Str.  i. 397, Ath. 12. 525c  see on Callinus, vol. i. p. 42 Archilochus, however, clearly knows of their destruction when he says:
I bewail the misfortunes of Thasos, not of Magnesia.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.20  
Strabo  Geography     
But we, like Archilochus, who disregards the wheat-lands and vineyards of Thasos and reproaches the island for being so rugged and mountainous, saying:
but this isle stands like the backbone of an ass, crowned with savage wood;     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.21  
even so, I say, we think only of one part of exile, its disgrace, and disregard the tranquillity, leisure, and freedom of it.    Plutarch  Exile:   
cf. Hesych.  ἀμφ᾽ Α᾿κίριος  , Plin.  N.H.  3. 97, Str. 6. 264 And the poet Archilochus is greatly struck with the blessedness of the country of the Sirites; contrasting it favourably with Thasos he says:
for there's no country so rich or desirable or lovely as the banks of the Siris.     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.22  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
And then, being about to enjoy but a short span of life, he does what was done later by Archilochus, who when his sister's husband perished at sea was deeply affected and would not write a line, saying to those who urged him to devote himself to his compositions:
and I care neither for  iambi  nor for rejoicings;     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.23  
but when he was tired of vain tears, said: （fr. 13）.    Tzetzes    
Didymus claims this for Aeschylus, but it really occurs in Archilochus, thus:
with their lives in the arms of the waves     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.24  
Scholiast on Aristophanes    
cf. Sch.  Il.  9. 378 This expression is used of those who run too great risks where the danger is other people's. The Carians appear to have been the first mercenaries ... Archilochus thus employs it:
and I shall be called a soldier of fortune like a Carian.     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.25  
Scholiast on Plato  Laches     
Aristotle quotes only the first halfline; the rest is cited anonymously by Plutarch  Tranq.  10. 470c （Plut. implies that  here  A. is speaking  in propria persona  ）; cf.  Anacreont.  8, Jub. ap. Rufin.  Gr. Lat.  6. 2. p. 563 K, Sch. Aesch.  P.V.  224, Arg. Soph.  O.T., E.G.  537. 26,  E.M.  771. 54 With regard to the ‘character’ in which a thing is said, since there are some things which if you said them of yourself would be invidious or tedious or provocative of contradiction, and if you said them of another would be slanderous or impolite, such things should be put into another's mouth, as is done by Isocrates in the Philip and in the Exchange, and by Archilochus, who in his censure makes ... say: （fr. 74. 1） and makes Charon the carpenter speak in the Iambic poem which begins:
I care not for the wealth of golden Gyges, nor ever have envied him; I am not jealous of the works of Gods, and I have no desire for lofty despotism; for such things are far beyond my ken.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.26  
Aristotle  Rhetoric:   
cf. Sch.  Od.  15. 534, Cram.  A.P.  3. 496. 13, Eust. 1790. 7   καρτερεῖν  : that is, overcome, withstand, and he that is master of anything is kartero/s; compare Archilochus:
and he is master of sheep-rearing Asia.     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.27  
Scholiast on Euripides  
Some hold that Apollo is so called because he destroys （  ἀπολλύντα  ） living creatures; for he kills and destroys them when he sends a plague in time of great heat; compare Euripides ... and Archilochus:
Lord Apollo, reveal Thou the guilty and destroy them as Thou ever dost.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.28  
Macrobius  Saturnalia:   
The mark is because Archilochus uses
ὑπερτέρα  for  νεωτέρα  ‘younger,’ thus:
only the younger daughter of Lycambes perh. it really meant  taller  ; cf. Hesych.  ὑπερτέρα   
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.29  
Scholiast on Homer  
cf. Philem. 63, Fav.  ῥόδον  , Bachm.  An.  2. 379, Sch. Theocr. 4. 45,  E.M.  441. 49, Ath. 2. 52 f, Eust. 1963. 49 And the finest of poets, Archilochus, when he praises the hair, praises it on the head of a harlot, crying ‘while her hair,’ etc.
She rejoiced with a branch of myrtle and the fair flower of the rose-tree in her hands, here ends A.'s citation  while her hair veiled her shoulders and her back.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.30  
Synesius  In Praise of Baldness:   
ῥόδον  means the flower, rose,  ῥοδωνιά  the place, rosary,  ῥοδῆ  the plant, rosetree; Archilochus: —   Ammonius  Words Alike but Different   
And in another passage Archilochus says:
perfumed so of hair and bosom that e'en an old man would have loved them   or perhaps  her 
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.31  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner     
cf. Ath. 15. 688c, Eust.  Il.  1300. 41 When Pericles returned to Athens after his reduction of Samos, he honoured the fallen with a public funeral, at which he won very great admiration for the speech he delivered, in accordance with custom, at the tomb. As he stepped down from the platform, most of the women clasped his hand and put wreaths and ribbons upon his head as though he had been a winner in the Games; but Elpinice went up to him and said: ‘You indeed deserve wreaths, Pericles, for the great things you have done, seeing that you have lost us many brave citizens, not in war with Medes or Phoenicians like my brother Cimon, but subduing an allied and kindred people.’ Thereupon Pericles with a gentle smile, it is said, quoted to her the words of Archilochus:
Too old art thou to scent thyself with perfumes.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.32  
Plutarch  Life of Pericles:   
The wine made of  barley is called by some writers ‘ale’ ... compare Archilochus:
She drank to the tune of the flute as a Thracian or Phrygian drinks his ale. the word translated ‘drank’ most prob. means ‘swallowed down’ （Boisacq）, and was apparently a colloquial word for what was otherwise known as  ἄμυστις  or drinking without stopping for breath, a trick of the symposium, originally Thracian, which was done to the sound of the flute, cf. Ath. ll. 783d ff; the Greek adds a still more reprehensible trait,  et a tergo percutiebatur  , see opp.     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.33  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
cf.  E.M.  183. 50,  Et. Vind. Cod.  131   βάβαξ:  —talkative; compare Archilochus:
The talkative lecher meaning doubtful; the words might also mean ‘hated eunuch,’ cf. Hesych.  βάβακα  , but cf.  μισητία  and Hesych.  μισητός    went to and fro in the house.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.34  
Orion  Etymologicum:   
cf. Phot. 374. 10, Suid.  παλίνσκιον     παλίνσκιον  : Archilochus in the  Trimeters: 
They leant against the wall in the shadow;    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.35  
that is, in the dark.    Harpocration  Lexicon to the Ten Orators:   
κύψαι  :—that is, to hang oneself; compare Archilochus:
They hung their heads and spued out cf.  φλύω  and Ap. Rh. 3. 582 with Sch.,  A.P.  7. 351-2; masculine precludes ref. to the daughters of Lycambes; or, keeping the Greek, ‘sloughed’ （like a snake）, cf.  φλόα  Nic.  Al.  302 and  φλοιός    all their pride.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.36  
Photius  Lexicon:   
cf. Sext. Emp.  Math.  11. 44, Cram.  A.P.  3. 488. 17 Archilochus says:
But various are the things which cheer men's hearts;    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.37  
in imitation of Homer.    Clement of Alexandria  Miscellanies   
cf.  Et. Mag. Vet.  , Callim. ap. Hdn. i. 511. 22   ἐγκυτί  :—a word meaning  ἐν χρῷ  ‘skin-close’; compare Archilochus:
his hair （  or  mane） shorn skin-close from his shoulders    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.38  
Etymologicum Magnum:   
αἰηνές  :—terrible or lamentable; compare Archilochus:
brought and set before his children a lamentable feast. the Eagle and the Vixen's young in the Fable （Schn.）,  see  p. 142 
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.39  
Etymologicum Magnum:   
cf. Hesych.  κορωνός  ,  Et. Gud.  339. 31, Cram.  A.P.  4. 76. 30,  E.M. Vet.     κορωνός  :—haughty and head-in-air; .. compare Archilochus:
We have a working ox that is haughty, knowing his work but unwilling to plough.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.40  
Etymologicum Magnum:   
περιθεῖν  ‘to run round’ means this （‘to surround on all sides’）, as Archilochus shows; compare:
For such a fence runs round the courtyard.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.41  
Scholiast on Homer  
cf. Cram.  A.O.  3. 300. 24 the Archilochian citation gives it short:
For we will never carry thee across without pay. referring to the story of Nessus.     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.42  
Apollonius Dyscolus  Adverbs     
cf. Hesych.  φυτοῦ: φύματος   ... for Archilochus uses  φυτόν  （usually meaning ‘plant’） in the sense of ‘tumour or growth’:
For I know of another good cure for such a growth.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.43  
Scholiast on Theocritus      
cf.  Et. Mag.  47. 22,  Et. Vind. Cod.  158, Zon. 983, Fav. 190 And what of Homer? Let one example suffice:   Il.  15. 624  ‘... and the hearts of the sailors tremble for fear; for by but a little ride they from beneath death’ ... Homer does not set a limit to the danger once for all, but paints men continually about to be swallowed up by every successive wave. Nay, by forcing the two prepositions  ὑπό  and  ἐκ  together unnaturally, he has tortured the verse to answer to the agony it describes, and by compressing the line has described the calamity surpassingly well, and all but stamped the peculiar nature of the peril on the words he employs. Archilochus does the same in the shipwreck.
stood on the edge between sea and wind.     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.44  
On the Sublime:   
ἥκη  :—the sharpness or edge of iron: compare Archilochus:     Etymologicum Magnum:   
cf. Sch.  Il.  23. 199 We call by the name of tokens or omens sneezes or sayings or meetings: compare Archilochus:
I seek thee making an omen.   or  I supplicate thee, etc.; another scholion indicates the source of this note to be Philochorus     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.45  
Scholiast on Pindar  
They, it seems, called a man  σοφός  , wise or skilled, who pursued any art or craft, and among them was Archilochus who says:
a good man and a skilled steersman ... a threesailed boat.     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.46  
Ammonius  
The aforesaid word  φηλήτης  ‘thief' occurs in Hesiod, and in Archilochus in the following line:
Thief that prowlest round the city in the night,    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.47  
that is, a thief that lies in wait by night.    Eustathius on the  Odyssey   
cf. Cram.  A.O.  3. 231. 5   μύκης  :—... the male organ, declined by Archilochus with the same number of syllables,   i.e.  not with gen.  μύκητος    thus:
fracti sunt nervi mentulae &lt;meae&gt;.     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.48  
Herodian  The Accentuation of Nouns:   
It is also declined as a spondee
Α῎ρης, Α῎ρου  （‘of Ares’）, whence extending it according to the Ionic dialect Archilochus gives in his  Trimeters  the form  Α῎ρεω  thus:
son of bloody Ares     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.49  
Eustathius on the  Iliad   
... the time of old age, for which the poet Archilochus declares idleness to be good. 
Old Etymologicum Magnum  
μακκοᾶν  :—to converse （?） ... compare:
An idle life is good for the aged, the more so if they be simple in their ways or be like to be stupid or to speak nought but foolishness, as old men will. ascription doubtful     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.50  
Cedren  Compendium of Histories:   
Eust. ad Dion. 767., Str. 10. 457, Euseb.  Praep. Ev.  5. 229   These
Sapaeans    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.51  
are mentioned by Archilochus in an iambic poem.    Pausanias  Description of Greece:   
TETRAMETERS 
the metre is really trochaic, but the Alexandrian editors class iambic and trochaic together as iambic in naming Books, and before their day the word  ἴαμβος  had a more than merely metrical connotation  cf.  E.M.  566. 53,  E. Gud.  371. 28 Cratinus has imitated the same line in the  Flask,  thus, ‘O most desolate fellow-townsmen,’ etc. It comes from Archilochus:
O most desolate fellow-townsmen, understand these words of mine.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.52  
Scholiast on Aristophanes  Peace     
The figs in Paros ... are mentioned by Archilochus, thus:
Heed not Paros and those figs and the life of the sea.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.53  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
Hesiod, however, and Archilochus, according to Apollodorus, already know that they are called collectively both ‘Greeks’ and ‘All-Greeks,’ the one using the latter word of the suitors of the daughters of Proetus, the other thus:
How hath the misery of all Greece gathered in Thasos!    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.54  
Strabo  Geography:   
cf. Plut.  Praec. Reip.  6, Paus. 10. 31. 12 Alcaeus and Alcman say that a stone was hung over him; ... and Archilochus writes:
nor let the stone of Tantalus overhang this isle.     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.55  
Scholiast on Pindar    
cf. Plut
Superst.  8, Sch. Hermog.  Rh. Gr.  5. 526 W, Theophr.  Sign.  3. 8, Cic.  Att.  5. 12 （where  B  sugg.  ἄκρα Τυρέων  ] ... just as Archilochus, entangled in the Thracian troubles, likens the war to a storm at sea, somehow thus:
Look, Glaucus; the waves e'en now run high, and upright about the tops of the Gyrae stands a cloud, the token of a storm; fear cometh of the unexpected.   i.e.  be warned in time     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.56  
Heracleitus  Homeric Allegories:   
Moreover he clearly adapts the following line, ‘The ends of victory lie for man in the hands of the Gods,’ apparently misquoted from  Il.  7. 102  in the Iambic:
and hearten the young; the ends of victory are among the Gods.   i.e.  the victory is in their hands to decide 
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.57  
Clement of Alexandria  Miscellanies     
Archilochus:—
Thou shouldest entrust all things to the Gods; often they raise uprigth those that be laid low on the black earth through misfortunes, and often they overthrow men and lay them on their backs though they stand firm enough; then cometh much trouble, and a man wanders in need of food and distraught in mind.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.58  
Stobaeus  Anthology     
cf. Hesych.  κεροπλάστης  , Poll. 2. 31 Later writers call by the name of
κέρας  or ‘horn’ the hornlike bunching-together of the hair of the head; compare Archilochus:
Sing of Glaucus the horn-fashioner ...    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.59  
Scholiast on the  Iliad   
For some writers say that the hair is called  κέρας  or ‘horn,’ whence come  κείρασθαι  ‘to be shorn’ and  κουρά  ‘cutting of the hair,’ and explain the ‘horn-fashioner’ of Archilochus as ‘vain of one's hair’ or ‘foppish.’   Plutarch  Sagacity of Animals     
cf. Gal. in Hippocr.  de Artic.  3. vol. 18. 1. 537 K, 604, Erotian 13. 32 Klein, Sch. Theocr. 4. 49, Philostr.  Vit. Soph.  238 K Archilochus ... speaking of a general, says:
I love not a tall general nor a straddling, nor one proud of his hair nor one part-shaven; prob. with shaven upper-lip  for me a man should be short and bowlegged to behold, set firm on his feet, full of heart. so Galen's version; perh. = full of pith; ‘heart,’ if right, can hardly mean courage here:  or, emending Dio's version  shaggy-browed （cf. l. 2）     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.60  
Dio Chrysostom  Orations:   
But nevertheless they cut off Vinius' head and Laco's too, and took them to Otho to ask for rewards. But as Archilochus says:
Of seven that lie dead whom we overtook in the pursuit, we are the thousand slayers.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.61  
In like manner then many that had no hand in the murder bloodied their hands and swords to show to Otho, and thrusting papers upon him, asked for rewards.    Plutarch  Life of Galba:   
cf. Heph. 6. 2. p. 18 C and Sch. 271. 8, Mar. Vict.  Gr. Lat.  6. 84. 26,  E.M. Vet.  （ascribes it to Callimachus） It is called a trochee because it has a running rhythm; for Archilochus uses it when his theme is ‘hot’ or excited, as in the line: Marius Vict. says that the catalectic tetrameter ‘which is called Archilochian’ is  aptum festinis narrationibus   
Where, O where, Erxias, is the luckless host mustering?    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.62  
Schoell's  Anecdota Varia:   
cf. Hesych.  Σείριος   ... but the sun rather takes up the moisture from the carcases by its burning heat; wherefore Archilochus speaks scientifically where he says:
Many of them I hope the Dog-Star   i.e.  the sun in the time of the Dog-Star  will wither up with his keen rays.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.63  
Plutarch  Dinner-Table Problems     
... just as the line ‘The War-God is alike to all and slayeth him that would slay’ is adapted thus by Archilochus:
Let him do it; for truly Ares is alike to all.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.64  
Clement of Alexandria  Miscellanies   
Archilochus: —
No man getteth honour or glory of his countrymen once he be dead; rather do we pursue the favour of the living while we live; the dead getteth ever the worst part.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.65  
Stobaeus  Anthology     
cf. Clem. Al.  Str.  6. 5. 10. 425, Sch.  Od.  23. 412 Archilochus: —
It is not good to revile dead men.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.66  
Stobaeus  Anthology     
Similarly Archilochus: —
One great thing I know, cf. the Fox and the Hedgehog, fr. 118  how to recompense with evil reproaches him that doeth me evil.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.67  
Theophilus of Antioch  To Autolycus     
cf. Dion. Hal.  Comp.  17, Apost. 18. 8a Archilochus: —
Soul, my soul, that art confounded with hopeless troubles, look up and defend thyself against thy enemies, setting a bold front against ambushes and standing nigh unto the foe firm-planted; and exult not openly if thou prevail, nor if thou prevail not lie wailing at home; but rejoice not overmuch in delightful things nor be vexed overmuch in ill, knowing what sort of temper   i.e.  temperament; the Gk. is ‘rhythm,’ cf. Theogn. 966  possesseth man.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.68  
Stobaeus  Anthology     
When we think we are slighted, our anger rises more against friends and acquaintance than against strangers. And so Archilochus is quite right when he thus addresses his soul in blame of his friends:
For 'tis thy friends make   or  made  thee choke thyself.   or  hang thyself     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.69  
Aristotle  Politics:   
There is no desire more imperious than that of thirst, and that is why Homer calls Argos ‘much-thirsted-after,’ as being greatly desired owing to lapse of time  . And so too Sophocles says ... and Archilochus:
I long to fight with thee even as when I am thirsty I long to drink.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.70  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner     
It occurs also in certain of the poets, as in Archilochus thus:
But now the rule is with Leophilus, the power is with Leophilus, all belongeth to Leophilus, and I address Leophilus.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.71  
Herodian  Figures of Speech     
cf. Sch. Hermog.  Rh. Gr.  7. 934 W, Diog. L. 9. 71, Suid.  Πυρρώνειοι  , Stob.  Ecl. Phys.  i. 38, Plut.  Nobil.  22,  Vit. Hom.  Gale  Opusc.  366, Sext. Emp.
Math.  7. 218 Adapting Homer where he says ‘such is the mind of earthly man as the Father of Gods and men may bring him for the day,’ Archilochus says this:
Such, Glaucus son of Leptines, becometh the mind of mortal man as Zeus may bring him for the day, and he thinketh such things as the deeds he meeteth.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.72  
Theon  First Course in Grammar:   
‘I would that’ says every man that prays, and Archilochus says:
I would that so perh. the ‘so’ used in prayers to imply a precedent vow  I might be granted to touch Neobule's hand.   or, emending the unusual Greek  , touch N. with my hand     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.73  
Plutarch  On the E at Delphi:   
Thus  ἀσκός  （bag made of skin） is here used of the region of the belly; compare Archilochus:
et impigrum in utrem cadere et ventrem trudere in ventrem, femora in femora.     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.74  
Scholiast on Euripides  
And again Archilochus, adapting the Homeric line ‘I was infatuate, I myself deny it not; worth many hosts ...,’ writes:
I sinned, and methinks this retribution hath overtaken another.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.75  
Clement of Alexandria  Miscellanies   
cf. Stob.  Fl.  110. 10, Plut.  Fac. Lun.  19 （quoted Mimn. 20） ... Archilochus, who in his censure makes the father speak of the daughter in the Iambic poem: Il. 2-9 are found only in Stobaeus 
There is nothing in the world unexpected, nothing to be sworn impossible nor yet marvellous, now that Zeus the Father of the Olympians hath made night of noon by hiding the light of the shining Sun so that sore fear came upon mankind. Henceforth is anything whatsoever to be believed or expected. Let not one of you marvel, nay, though he see the beasts of the field exchange pasture with the dolphins of the deep, and the roaring waves of the sea become dearer than the land to such as loved the hill. prob. ref. to the eclipse usually dated 6th Apr. 648 B.C. but recently put at 5th Apr. 647; that of June 27 660, which was total at Thasos and not at Paros, would also fall in A.'s lifetime （Ginzel）     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.76  
Aristotle  Rhetoric  （see fr. 25）  
... As for instance when Archilochus prays:
Give ear, Lord Hephaestus, be a propitious aider in the fray unto thy suppliant, and grant me what Thou shalt grant; taking  χαρίζεαι  as subjunctive, cf. Hdt. 5. 23  συνέχεαι  , Aesch.  Cho.  780, Sa. 46. 8  L.G.  i Ed. 2; but it may be ‘what thou grantest （habitually）,’ cf. fr. 27     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.77  
he clearly is calling on the God, but when .. （see fr. 12）.    Plutarch  How the Young should listen to Poetry:   
The term  ἐξάρχειν  ‘to lead off’ is peculiar to the lyre; thus Hesiod says ... and Archilochus:
myself leading off the Lesbian Paean to the sound of the flute. if the context is sound, the line is cited to show that A. thought it necessary to mention the flute as exceptional     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.78  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
According to Philochorus the ancients do not always sing a dithyramb when pouring the libation, but when the libation has been poured, thus praising Apollo quietly and with decorum and Dionysus amid wine and jollity. Compare Archilochus:
For I know how to lead off the pretty tune of Lord Dionysus, my wits thunderstricken with wine.   i.e.  ‘after men have well drunken’     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.79  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
cf. Eust.  Il.  1148. 38 Archilochus speaks of Pericles as breaking into banquets uninvited like the Myconians:..
drinking much and unmingled wine, neither contributing thy cost  ; nor yet enterest thou invited as a friend unto friends, but thy belly hath sore beguiled thy mind and thy wits to have no shame. the 3rd-Cent. B.C. Papyrus containing the ends of 8 tetrameters perh. of Archilochus, Milne  Cat. Lit. Pap. Brit. Mus.  55 p. 43, is unfortunately too fragmentary to be included in this book     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.80  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
ASYNARTETE TETRAMETERS 
i.e.  compounded of two parts properly ‘unconnectable’  cf. Heph. pp. 48-9 C, Sch. Pind.  P. arg.  9. 12,  Is. arg.  3. 5, Suid.  Εὐγένιος   These too were first used by Archilochus. For in some places he combined the 3 1/2-foot anapaestic and the 1 1/2-foot trochaic called ithyphallic, thus ‘Charilaus,’ etc. But his successors did not write it in the same way. For while he employed the caesura （or word-separation） only at the end of the colon, and admitted spondees in the anapaestic part of the line as ‘And some of the citizens’ etc., his successors employed the caesura promiscuously; compare Cratinus....
Charilaus son of Erasmon, I'll tell thee a droll thing, thou much the dearest of my comrades, and the hearing of it shall delight thee ...
to love him though hateful and not talk with ...    and some of the citizens went behind but most of them ...    about to raise hands to Demeter ...    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.81  
Hephaestion  Handbook of Metre     
And one might take it there is a third point of difference between Archilochus and his successors, namely that he appears to use an anapaest in the first foot, thus ‘I will tell’ etc. and ‘To love him though hateful’ etc., which they did not. But this is probably wrong, because in both cases the apparent anapaest becomes an iambus by synecphonesis or combination of vowels.   Hephaestion  Handbook of Metre   
Archilochus was the first to use an anapaestic with this number of feet, putting it before the ithyphallic in the Tetrameters, for ‘Charilaus son of Erasmon’ is a 3 1/2-foot anapaestic; and he also used an iambus in the first foot, as is clear from the example just quoted, and even a spondee as ‘about to raise’ etc. The first-foot anapaest seems to be found only in two lines, ‘I will tell’ etc. and ‘To love him though hateful’ etc.; but in both lines the anapaest is really an iambus by synecphonesis.   Hephaestion  Handbook of Metre     
We have already spoken of the gluttony of Thys the king of the Paphlagonians.... And Archilochus in the  Tetrameters  has reproached Charilas with the same thing. cf. Ael.  V.H.  i. 27, Eust. 1630. 4    Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
... The words that differ in the spelling: these are ...  εἴκελος  ‘like’ in ‘like lightning,’ and  ἴκελος,  ..  βακχεία  ‘Bacchic revelry’ and bakxi/a in Archilochus’ line:
each man drank from dawn onward, and in Bacchic revelries ..    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.82  
Grammarian in Welcker's  Opuscula:   
Epodes 
Archilochus: —
Wretched I lie, dead with desire, pierced through my bones with the bitter pains the Gods have given me.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.83  
Stobaeus  Anthology     
There is a third ‘unconnectable’ line in Archilochus, consisting of a 2 1/2-foot dactylic and an iambic dimeter acatalectic:
but Desire that looseth our limbs, my comrade, overwhelmeth me.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.84  
Hephaestion  Handbook of Metre:   
cf. Diogen.  Paroem. Praef.  178,  Rh. Gr.  W 2. 11, E. Gud. 19. 22, Eust.  Il.  855. 4,  Od.  1768. 61, Sch.  Od.  14. 508, Cram.  A.P.  3. 371. 13, Apoll. Dys.  de Dubit.  490 B, Sch.  Il.  19. 407, Philostr.  Im.  298 K, Sch. Ar.  Av.  651, Prisc.  Gr. Lat.  2. 430. 6 K, Aesop 5, Phaedr. i. 28, Theon  Prog.  i. 10   αἶνος  ‘fable’ and
παροιμία  ‘proverb’: —the Fable is a fictitious narrative concerning the animal or vegetable creation applied to man, according to Lucius Tarrhaeus in the 1st Book of his  Proverbs  , compare, for an instance of the animal sort, Archilochus:
This is a fable among men, that a Fox and an Eagle made friends together.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.85  
Ammonius  Words Alike but Different:   
‘Dost thou see that high rock yonder, rough and malignant? Therein I sit preparing battle against thee.’    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.86  
This high rock it is impossible for the shrewd and knavish beast to climb, and for the Fox to come at the Eagle's young, either they must by some evil chance lose their home and fall to the ground, or the Fox must grow limbs contrary to nature, and whirl swift wings, and thus rise from the ground and fly up to the high rock. So long as either abides in his proper place, there is no association between the creatures of the earth and those of the sky. 
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.87  
Atticus in Eusebius  
Archilochus mss have Aeschylus or Antilochus （‘Archilochus' in Clement） : —
‘O Zeus, Father Zeus, Thine is the rule of Heaven, Thou overseest the deeds of men, alike knavish and lawful; Thou takest count of the right-doing or wrong-doing of beasts.’ prob. the Fox is speaking     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.88  
Stobaeus  Selections     
... and again when he says ‘Like’ etc., then he adds ‘The Ape,’ etc.
Like a grievous message-stick, thou son of a Herald, prob. a mock-patronymic like Alcaeus'  Κακοπατρίδαν    I will tell thee and thine a fable- The Ape parted from the other beasts and was walking alone in the borderland, or wilderness? cf. Hesych.  ἐσχατιά: ἐρημία    when the crafty Fox met him with cunning in his heart. cf. Aesop 43, Babr. 81 （not the same story）, which suggest ‘it is easy to lie about one's ancestors’     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.89  
Ammonius  Words Alike but Different     
cf. Sch. Ar.  Ach.  678, Suid.  σκανδάληθρα     σκανδάληθρον:  ...it is the bent piece of wood in a trap, on which it leans; Archilochus calls it
ῥόποτρον: 
leaning on the trap-stick cf. Aesop 44 （the Fox and the Ape-King） and the next fr.     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.90  
Etymologicum Magnum:   
This too he parodies from the  Epodes  of Archilochus:
with such a rump, thou Ape... in the paraphrase of the Aesopian Fable （44） of the Fox and the Ape the corresponding question runs thus, ‘With such   wits （  ψυχήν  ） wilt thou be king of the animals?’ whence some would read ‘wits’ for ‘rump’ here, perh. rightly 
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.91  
Scholiast on Aristophanes    
cf. Zon. 1573-8, Fav. 383, Suid.  καταπροΐζεται  ,  Et. Vind.  cod. 32,  E. Gud.  305,  E. M. Vet.  179, Orion 82. 23   καταπροΐξασθαι:  —From  προικός,  of which the Ionians make three syllables like their disyllabic nominative  προΐξ  . He says ‘It is not given gratis, nor shall I be condemned as having taken a bribe, but he shall pay for what he has had done.’ And the word  ἐπαιτής  ‘beggar’ and he who asks to have a thing gratis （  προῖκα αἰτῶν  ） are called  προΐκτης.  Thus I find it stated in the  Notes on the Epodes of Archilochus. 
And he shall not come off scot-free for what he hath done unto me.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.92  
Cramer's  Inedita  （Paris）  
προΐκτης:  ... some derive it from  ἵξεσθαι  ‘to be about to come,’ that is, to receive some gift; compare Archilochus:     Etymologicum Magnum:   
cf. Plut.  Prim. Frig.  14,  Adv. Stoic.  23 All the same, Fortune, like the woman in Archilochus who
carried water in the one hand, the wily one, and fire in the other,    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.93  
had no sooner by these dread tidings taken Sparta from him, than she gave him fresh hopes of new and great things from the following circumstance.    Plutarch  Life of Demetrius:   
cf. Sch. Hermog.  Rh. Gr.  7. 820 W, Mar. Vict.  Gr. Lat.  6. 170. 5, Sch. Heph. 262, 267, 282 C, Ibid.  App.  312, Plot.  Gr. Lat.  6. 518. 5, 522. 6, Jub. ap. Rufin.  Gr. Lat.  6. 261. 13, Demetr.  Eloc.  5, Sch. Ar. Ran. 384, Sch. Pind. P. 5, 6, 7 （Arg.）, Joan. Sic.  Rh. Gr.  6. 128 W There are also poems called, with the masculine termination,  ἐπῳδοί  or ‘epodes,’ in which a shorter line follows a longer; compare: ll. 3-4 only in Sch. Hermog. 
Father Lycambes, what, pray, is this thou hast imagined? Who hath perverted the wits thou wast endowed with? Thou seem'st matter for much laughter to thy fellows now. see 143 n.: this poem, of which 95 probably, and 143 possibly, are parts, prob. stood first in the Book of Epodes used by Hephaestion     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.94  
Hephaestion  On Poems:   
Dotades
Lycambes son of Dotus.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.95  
Hesychius  Glossary:   
cf.  E. M. Vet.  280, Fav. 581, Cram.  A.O.  i. 409. 5  : This form  τέῳ  ‘to whom’ has been ventured on, and  τέου  ‘of whom,’ for instance:
What God, pray, and with whom angered...:    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.96  
Etymologicum Magnum   
For, as is well known, many that have shared salt and table have plotted against their fellow-guests, and the literature of the world is full of examples. Moreover the Parian iambic-writer thus reproaches Lycambes for annulling an agreement made by ‘salt and table’:
And hast thou turned thy back on a great oath made by salt and table?   or  And thou hast, etc.; cf. Heliod. 6. 2     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.97  
Origen  Against Celsus:   
The salt and the table did nothing for Archilochus towards the granting of his marriage, as he says himself.   Dio Chrysostom  
tumebat mentula eius like that of a he-ass of Priene that eateth corn.     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.98  
Eustathius on the  Odyssey   
cf. Cram.
A.P.  4. 61. 26,  E.M.  271. 28 n, Miller  Mel.  88, Phot. 355. 24, Sch.  Il.  13. 291, Hesych.  ἀτρυγηφάγου, ὀτρ.  , Eust.  Il.  1003. 16   κήλων  comes from he-asses; compare Archilochus: ‘Like,’ etc. 
τρύγη  is the fruit of Demeter （i.e corn） as in ‘he-ass that eateth corn’ where it stands for ‘barley-eating,’ with pleonasm of  ο  like  κρυόεις  and  ὀκρυόεις;  compare Archilochus.     Etymologicum Magnum:   
Archilochus: —     Etymologicum Sorbonianum:   
...driven out of his course by the waves; and at Salmydessus may the top-knotted Thracians seize him bare of friendly  , there to eat the bread of servitude and fill the measure of many ills, seize him frozen with the cold; cf. Timoth.  Pers.  （  L.G.  iii） 94, 110, 145, Hor.  Epod.  10; shipwrecked Greeks threw off their clothes to swim, cf. Theophr.  Char.  25.2  and may he have upon him much tangle Mediterranean waters grow a seaweed that consists of long, narrow, thin ribbons which cling to the body  of the surges, and his teeth be chattering, as he lies on his belly   lit.  faceforemost  like a dog, helpless on the edge of the surf, spewing out the wave. This I fain would behold, because he wronged me and trod a covenant underfoot, he that once was my friend. scholion which must refer to this or the next （not printed） poem, has been doubtfully read ‘the poet means Bupalus,’ whence some would ascribe these papyrus fragments to Hipponax, cf. 97 B 3; but this poem was prob. addressed by A. to Lycambes, cf. 96     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.99  
From a Papyrus of the 2nd Century  
The   fold of thy robe,   lit.  thy robe arranged bulging （  i.e.  showing pregnancy）  miserable woman, showeth whom thou sittest next. Delver Hipponax, he knoweth it better than any man. And Ariphantus knoweth it too. Happy he, that he never saw the thief a-stinking of he-goat!   i.e.  it is lucky for A. that he did not catch his supplanter H. red-handed （one who had stolen a he-goat would smell of it）, for instead of the aggrieved （A.） punishing the aggressor （H.）, A. is such a poor creature that H. would have reversed the process    he was at war with the potter Aeschylides, Hipponax reft  ;   i.e.  while A. was taken up with thwarting another rival, H. stepped in and forestalled him  and now all the tale's made clear. the poem ends here    From a Papyrus of the 2nd Century  
cf. Sch. Heph. p. 273 C The dactylic tetrameter with disyllabic catalexy （or shortening）, first used by Archilochus in the  Epodes: 
to take to wife a patent evil     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.100  
Hephaestion  Handbook of Metre:   
Music has power to check faction and disturbance... and so Archilochus says:
and whoso liveth is soothed by song.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.101  
From a Papyrus of the 1st Century B.C., Philodemus  On Music:   
cf. Sch. Heph. p. 270 C, Trich. 12, Sch. Arg. Pind.  O.  12,  N.  8, 11 The trochaic trimeter catalectic, like this of Archilochus, called by some the headless iambic:
O Father Zeus, 'twas no wedding I feasted at!    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.102  
Hephaestion  
cf. Heph. 7. 4. 22 C, 15. 8. 50, Sch. pp. 123, 270, 273, At. Fort.  Gr. Lat.  6. 1. 298 K Notable too in the form of the trochaic is the brachycatalectic dimeter called ithyphallic, first used by Archilochus, who combines it with the dactylic tetrameter thus:
No longer doth thy soft skin bloom as it did; 'tis withering now.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.103  
Hephaestion  
Homer says ‘the eels and fishes were afflicted’ （by the fire）, and Archilochus similarly:
many a blind eel hast thou entertained.   i.e.  thy corpse has fed eels at the bottom of the water? 
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.104  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
cf. fr. 141 The ravens are said
ἀπτερύεσθαι  , as slackening their flight. The word is used instead of  διασείουσι  , ‘shake’ their wings in coming to the end of their flight; for they flap them either through pleasure at reaching their nest or in order to shake out the moisture of the air. And in Archilochus the Crow shaking with joy
flapped her wings like a halcyon on a jutting rock. prob. from a Fable 
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.105  
Scholiast on Aratus  Phaenomena:   
Archilochus:—
For such was the desire of love that twisted itself like Odysseus under the ram,  Od.  9. 433  beneath thy （?） heart and poured a thick mist over thine eyes, stealing the gentle wits from thy head.   the Greek is  bosom     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.106  
Stobaeus  Anthology     
... and again ‘When,’ etc. （line 1）.
When the people gathered for the Games, and among them Batusiades cf. Hesych.  Σελληϊάδεω  （  see  next fr.）     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.107  
Hephaestion  On Poems  （after fr. 94）  
... But if the foot which composes the metre be trisyllabic, the catalexis or shortening can extend to two syllables as in the dactylic line ‘and among them’ etc.; here the last syllable stands instead of a dactyl.   Hephaestion  Handbook of Metre     
of Selleiades prob. a mock-patronymic from  Σελλός  a guardian of the oracle of Zeus at Dodona 
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.108  
the son of Selleus, the seer by name Batusiades.    Hesychius  Glossary   
ascription doubtful The future lies before the Gods, as it were before their eyes; for this reason ‘Zeus’ etc., and moreover because this very thing is testified to by the same poet; for his second line is ‘and himself’ etc.
Zeus is the surest prophet among the Gods, and himself holdeth the fulfilment. i.e. he is in the position of being able to fulfil his own prophecies     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.109  
Aristides  Orations:   
This can be divided into the acatalectic Archilochian dimeter, of which I have spoken above:
Thou hast drawn friends to thee as a sheaf the dove. emendation uncertain     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.110  
Marius Plotius    
Their name is sometimes given with the middle syllable short; compare Archilochus:
cowering feminine  like a partridge     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.111  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner     
Plato says that what is well-born is noble; compare Archilochus:
Pass by, for thou art a noble apparently used by A. to mean of high birth  man.     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.112  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
Yes, yes, by the green of the poppy;    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.113  
a jesting oath. cf. Ath. 9.370 b     Suidas  Lexicon:   
θῳή  ‘retribution’:—this word has the iota by tradition, since it is found in the form  θωϊή  , as for instance in Archilochus:
and in order that retribution may take thee     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.114  
Etymologicum Magnum:   
cf. Hesych.  μήτ᾽ εὐμελ. τύχοις  , Suid.
μελ.  and Zenob. 5. 10  , Mill.  Mel.  367 Archilochus too calls the eagle black-rumped:
lest thou meet a black-rumped creature the Fox to its Cub? but Hesychius and the  Greek Proverbs  explain it by ‘lest you meet somebody brave and strong,’ i.e. Heracles 
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.115  
Scholiast on the  Iliad   
cf. Sch. Nic.  Ther.  322   ἔμπλην  :—  ἐμπελάδην  ‘close to,’ or, as some use it, ‘apart from’; the latter use occurs in Archilochus:
apart from Pholus and me     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.116  
Apollonius the Sophist  Homeric Lexicon:   
cf. Apoll.  Pron. Gram. Gr.  2.i.l.58.ll   λεωκόρητος  :—‘utterly destroyed,’ for
λέως  is equivalent to  τελέως  ‘completely’; compare Archilochus:
for they had no sense at all.     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.117  
Photius  Lexicon:   
Thargelia:—A feast of Apollo, and the whole month sacred to the God; at the Thargelia they offer and carry round firstfruits of all that grows, and these they call Thargelia, the month being known as Thargelion. Moreover, a good season was called Thargelian. Compare Archilochus
Dawn breaks, Phesinus; it is the Thargelia. with impers.  ἄγει  cf. Theophr.  Char.  4. 12  νουμηνίαν ἄγει  （subject was originally ‘the king,’ cf.  ὕει  and  ὕει Ζεύς  ） 
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.118  
Hesychius  Glossary:   
Coeranus of Miletus, seeing one day some fishermen who had taken a dolphin about to cut it in pieces, begged it off by a gift of money and let it go out to sea. Some time afterwards he was shipwrecked off Myconos and was saved by a dolphin when all hands were lost but he. When he died an old man in his native country and the funeral was being held near the seashore, a shoal of dolphins happened to appear in the harbour on the very day, within a stone's throw of the funeral procession, as though accompanying Coeranus to his grave and sharing the grief of the mourners.   Phylarchus  
One day at Byzantium some dolphins which had been netted and taken, were ransomed, as it were, by a Parian named Coeranus who gave their captors some money and set them free. His kindness did not go unrewarded. For he was sailing one day, we are told, in a fifty-oared galley which was conveying some Milesians, when, in the strait between Naxos and Paros, the ship capsized and all aboard perished except Coeranus, who was saved by dolphins —a prompt return for his kindly action. A promontory and a cliff with a cave in it are shown where they swam ashore with him, and the place is called after him. Some time afterwards, when this man Coeranus died and his body was being burnt near the sea, the dolphins somehow learnt of it and assembled as though they had come to the funeral, and remained, like faithful friends, till the fire burnt itself out.   Aelian  Natural History:   
Coeranus, who was by birth a Parian, so Aelian: Phylarchus makes him a Milesian, which is clearly right （  see below  ）  when one day at Byzantium a number of dolphins became entangled in a net and were about to be cut to pieces, bought them and let them all go. Soon afterwards, they say, he was at sea in a fifty-oared galley, which was carrying certain of the Milesians, when, in the strait between Naxos and Paros, the ship capsizing and all but he being lost, it is said that a dolphin ran under him and supported him, and put him ashore in a cave of Sicynthus prob. = Paros （  see below  ）; as Plut. adds a similar story told ‘by the Zacynthians’ of Telemachus, there may have been some old confusion between Sicynthus and Zacynthus  which is shown to this day and called after him. It is on this episode that Archilochus is said to have written: ‘Out of fifty,’ etc. And when Coeranus came to die and his kinsmen were burning his body near the sea, a shoal of dolphins appeared off the shore as though to show that they had come to the funeral, and waited near by till all was over.   Plutarch  Sagacity of Animals:   
From two exemplars of an Inscription on the bases of lost statues or other monuments of Archilochus at Paros dedicated by a priest of Zeus the King and Heracles the Victorious. I have been obliged here, in order to avoid dividing the chief inscription, to disregard the metrical arrangement of the Books  
Demeas wrote an account not only of the fame of others, but of the virtues of the poet Archilochus, his outstanding piety, genitive due to confusion  the love he bore to his country, Paros, and the many great benefits he bestowed on the Parians —about these he wrote five Books, besides the Book which assigns them to the Archon of each year. And Demeas has given each of the things done and written of by Archilochus under the name of the archon to whose year it belongs, beginning with the first archonship of Eureas, when it seems that a fifty-oared galley which had brought ambassadors from the Milesians and was on the way back to Miletus, was lost in the   of Naxos and only one of her company saved, a man named Coeranus, who was taken on its back by a dolphin, and cast up into e.g.a cave on the coast of the Syra-ward district, see Appendix, p. 321  whence he   safe-conduct under guard by right of his status as ambassador. And we hold the cave sacred to this day, and it is called after him the Cave of Coeranus. This Coeranus was associated with Archilochus in the   colonisation of Thasos and in the war, of which the poet makes the following mention: （1）
Out of fifty shipwrecked the kindly Poseidon left to be saved only Coeranus   prob. = Paros （Rubensohn, from Plut. and Steph. Byz. who gives a list of poetical synonyms for P. including  Ζάκυνθος  ） 
（18 lines almost wholly lost）     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.119  
A Col. 1  
‘... And if the Parians deprive the Thracians of any gold they may be digging or carrying away, they are to restore it all to them.' All this is proved by Archilochus, who thus satirises them for perjuring themselves: （2）
Outstanding courage did he witness who was in the fleet   i.e.  one of the overseas expedition to Thasos  and enrolled as war-cousin   i.e.  comrade-in-arms  in the clan of Exacestus and Malcis （?）. Like tetters settling on the skin, even so set off the son of Peisistratus with a company of doughty wielders of flute and lyre rather than of spear and shield （i.e. meddling non-combatants）  for Thasos, bearing a gift of pure gold i.e. the （alleged） intention of giving the Thracians a share in working the mines （written after the above treaty was made, as a protest）  for the Thracians; and they made misfortune for their fellows i.e. fellow-countrymen in general  by their own gain. sarcastic; i.e. much good did it do them     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.120  
This is because they （afterwards） killed the Thracians, and all of them were themselves either drowned by the Parians or carried off as slaves by the Thracians. In the following year Amphitimus is archon again, and at this time the poet proves again that they （the Parians） won a great victory over the Naxians, in the following words: （3） 
And highest of all, or high above them  taking her stand propitious near by, Fortune shone forth, and went, and where'er she came bore rule; and up rose the war-cry of a doughty people; and not one of the javelineers but had his hold of the thong, i.e. all gripped their javelins firmly by the thong used for throwing them （elsewh. called  ἀγκύλη, ἄμμα, ἔναμμα  ）  for they all cast their javelins; aye, and every one of the many that ran ahead leaping forth against us, Death had surely for his prey. And whomsoever ...    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.121  
Col. 4  
e.g. ... according to Demeas, but   and that Demeas is right is proved by the poet   （4）
hath come upon the host; and what is now accomplished   where I was rescued from the surf   holy precinct, but an unprofitable      CURFRAG.tlg-0232.122  
And that Glaucus defeated   in single combat, as we are told by Demeas, is proved by the poet   （5） 
will not tremble in limb and wit   bethought him of his country   when he was at his ease, or dared great deeds in his cups   you slew with your spear   It was yours   with your very wrath.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.123  
except for his   to Thasos, where he visited among others a courtesan   of the disdainful woman whom   （6） 
e.g. How shall   betake   before wild pears? i.e. sweet before sour     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.124  
when he left Thasos, and made her his wedded wife. And that Demeas is right in saying this about this courtesan, the poet proves in these words: （7） 
For   a thousand husbands      CURFRAG.tlg-0232.125  
in these: （8） 
e.g. I took thee   wife   and to the midwives   acknowledger of the children thou barest. lit. taker-up of children; if when a child was born the father took it up it was a sign that he acknowledged it     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.126  
but according to   after   And that he is right the poet proves thus: （9） 
Thou barest fruit, Tereina,   of an over-dowered marriage with me. i.e. he was paid high to take her?     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.127  
And again: （10） 
who   wast staled metaphor from fresh and salted fish  by many and many a Cabarnian i.e. Parian    thee I have possessed   and none but thee,   undefiled. But now   ten harlots   my house   Change thy garments i.e. put on clothes characteristic of the courtesan  and go out o' nights and make sport   for such as be no woman's husband. lit. caelibibus viris crura tua tolle     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.128  
And again: （11） 
e.g. Whither wilt thou go   a new   Go bed thee with a Seriphian frog: the frogs of this island were said never to croak, and the frog in general was proverbially the typical water-drinker; A. was too fond of wine and song to please his wife, and, to her thinking, kept her short of drink  and   thou wouldst have more than that,   lit. seu cupies subigitari, bene rigide subigiteris     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.129  
Demeas they （the Parians） sent   against the Acraephnians; a city of Boeotia  and that he is right in this Archilochus proves in these   words: （12） 
Acraephnis, how      CURFRAG.tlg-0232.130  
And each of these things the poet proves thus: （13） 
When they   they   bartered   for food;   the leathern handle   and shaved off  , that it might serve me to smooth out   wrinkles lit. ant-runs  from   skin, i.e. to beat her with  so that   might not have   began to cast the javelins from their hands,   or Creon  exhorted them   But their   was humbled. For Athena, daughter of Zeus,   nigh   set an ewer on the coping-stone, i.e. ploughed the sands, failed    their wall of defence,   sweating at the long slow   of stones, was broke open,   tribes   or, as we should say,  regiments  arose   of Lesbian   laying   on hand   set up the dance, while Zeus   of the Olympians   was to be master any more   they all stood sore troubled;   had fostered   ere he knew it,   to be lit again; and they sat      CURFRAG.tlg-0232.132  
Col. 4  
...  lonius ... of her mother （or of his —or her —mother herself）...
（2 lines lost） 
and after （?）... 
（1 line lost） 
of his （or her） country and Archilochus   there again ... 
（2 lines lost）     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.133  
Who hath honoured thee by carving thee, ‘the servitor of the Muses' that art in the stone, thou son of Telesicles? I will tell thee right truly if thou knowest not. Being a good man and not left behind by Virtue, Sostheus known from other inscriptions  son of Prosthenes hath stolen my tuneful song to make him a destiny of eternal fame.
（  followed by two couplets beginning  The helm of Wisdom  and ending  Paros prob. containing the name of the author of the above lines, perhaps a schoolmaster ）.   B Col. 4  
: The last foot of the dactylic tetrapody becomes, with the last syllable anceps, a cretic; compare:
and supply  roaming  or the like  the steep glens of the hills, such as he was in youth    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.134  
Hephaestion  Handbook of Metre   
cf. AT. Fort.  GR. Lat.  6. 1. 299 K  : The trimeter, as for instance in Archilochus:
... row, and destroys the ... of evil eld    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.135  
Hephaestion  Handbook of Metre   
Paros :—an island which is also called a
city     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.136  
by Archilochus in the  Epodes.      Stephanus of Byzantium  Lexicon:   
cf. Plut.  Soll. An.  16 
The Fox knoweth many things, the Hedgehog one great thing. i.e. to roll himself into a ball of spines; cf. fr. 65     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.137  
This saying occurs in an Epode of Archilochus. It is used of the greatest scoundrels.    Zenobius  Proverbs:   
Hymns 
Hymn to Heracles  
cf. Ar.  Ach.  1227 ff and Sch., Sch. Pind. N. 3. 1, Tz.  Chil.  i. 690, Suid.  τήνελλα  , Callim.  Ox.  Pap. 1793 col. 8. 4 and fr. 223 The sounding chant of Archilochus at Olympia, the threefold rolling victory-song, sufficed to lead Epharmostus when he went in triumph past the Cronian hill with his dear companions, but now, etc.
Ting-a-ling victorious! all hail Lord Heracles,   Thyself and Iolaus, warriors twain, Ting-a-ling victorious! all hail Lord Heracles. so Erat. ap. Sch. Pind. （but  χαῖρε  and  Ἡράκλεις  ]: another version has  ὦ καλλίνικε  ,  but the exact form of the hymn remains uncertain. Cf. Sch. Ar.  Av.  1764. 
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.138  
Pindar  Olympians:   
（a） It was the custom for the winner to celebrate his victory in the evening with a fluteplayer; and if there was no fluteplayer present, one of the winner's companions struck up by speaking the words  τήνελλα καλλίνικε  （that is, ‘ting-a-ling victorious’）. —（b） The chant of Archilochus which was sung in honour of winners at the Olympian Games had three strophes, being of such a nature as to be able to apply generally to any winner because its words contained no mention of the event it celebrated, nor the name of the winner or the nature of the contest. The refrain employed was this,  τήνελλα καλλίνικε  ... —（c） The word ‘threefold’ is used because they shouted the word  καλλίνικε  thrice, that is not to say thrice in immediate succession, but the strophe is threefold and the refrain repeated with each. But according to Eratosthenes the chant of Archilochus is not really a victory-song but a hymn to Heracles, and the word ‘threefold’ does not refer to its being composed of three strophes, but because the word  καλλίνικε  was used three times as a refrain. With regard to the word  τήνελλα  we are told by Eratosthenes that when the fluteplayer or lyre-player was not present the chorus-leader took it up and spoke it ‘outside of the song,’ and then the chorus of revellers joined in with  καλλίνικε,  and thus came the combination  τήνελλα καλλίνικε.  The song begins ‘O hail victorious,’ etc. —（d） Having composed a hymn to Heracles, Archilochus was at a loss for a lyre-player and imitated the tune in speech. Thus he made this word  τήνελλα  as a start for what followed, and himself spoke the tune of the lyre, that is  τήνελλα,  in the midst of the chorus, and they did the rest. From this it came about that when a lyre-player was not to be had, this word  τήνελλα  was used instead. The whole song is as follows: ‘Ting-a-ling,’ etc.   Scholiasts on Pindar  Olympians:   
Alalalai! hail Thou Healer,  τήνελλα καλλίνικος,  Most excellent of Deities!   Aristophanes  Birds:   
The word  τήνελλα  is the representation of a certain musical sound of the flute taken from the refrain which Archilochus repeated in honour of Heracles after the Labour of the Augean Stables: ‘Ting-a-ling,’ etc. It appears that Archilochus first used this refrain for himself, when he won the competition for the Hymn to Demeter at Paros.   Scholiast on Aristophanes  Birds:   
Iobacchi 
There is another ‘unconnectable’ metre with the first antipathy or ‘opposition,’ consisting of an iambic dimeter acatalectic and a 3 1/2-foot trochaic, known as the Euripidean, as for instance in the Iobacchi ascribed to Archilochus:
Celebrating the feast of the holy Demeter and Core    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.139  
Hephaestion  Handbook of Metre:   
Βέχειρ .. χρυσοέθειρ 
golden-haired     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.140  
in the  Iobacchi  of Archilochus, a shortened form of
χρυσοέθειρος.      Stephanus of Byzantium  Lexicon:   
the remaining fragments have not been classified by B; 124, 135, 136, 137, 140, 142 prob. belong to the  Tetrameters  , and 160 to the  Epodes     σκύτα  : —the part between the tendons of the neck ... compare Archilochus:
how did he saw off i.e. sever  or perh.  burn off, as Hesychius seems to have read, explaining ‘lamented, blew off, made to wither off,’ all prob. traditional attempts: cf.  E.M.  720. 38,  E.G.  505. 53, Hesych.  σκύτα  , Psell.  Prol.  Zon. 118, Hesych.  ἀπέπρησεν    the nape of the neck?     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.141  
Erotian  Glossary to Hippocrates:   
cf. Sch. Ar.  Av.  1426 The preposition  ὑπό  is used instead of
μετά  , ‘by the light of torches’; compare Archilochus:
singing to the fluteplayer's accompaniment     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.142  
Scholiast on Homer  
cf. Hesych.  ἀπεσκόλυπτεν   Cephisodorus the pupil of the orator Isocrates, in the 3rd Book of his treatise  To Aristotle  , declares that in the other poets or sophists you may find at least one or two things ill said, for instance in Archilochus:
omnes tentigo cepit     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.143  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
αὐόνη  : —dryness; Archilochus; compare
Zeus gave them an evil drought.     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.144  
Old Etymologicum Magnum:   
cf. Suid.  φεψάλῳ     φέψαλοι  are sparks ... and the word is found in Archilochus:
and I was a spark of fire to him.     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.145  
Scholiast on Aristophanes  
cf.  E.M.  120. 3,  E.M. Vet.  37  , Sch. Ap. Rh. i. 1117, Hesych,  ἀπεσούπαζον     στύπος  : —Lycophron ... the stump of the vine is so called, whence Archilochus:
（I） cudgelled （him） from the door.     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.146  
Etymologicum Magnum:   
α）μυδρόν  : —In this passage it means ‘difficult or troublesome’ （?）, as in Archilochus:
avoiding a dim-seen reef.     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.147  
Scholiast on Nicander  Venomous Bites:   
>cf.
E.M.  297. 17,  E.G.  585. 14 Compounds of the prefix
τρις  - ‘thrice’ mean ‘very much’; compare .. and this:
and the thrice miserable city of Thasos;     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.148  
in Archilochus. cf. fr. 19     Eustathius on the  Odyssey   
προΐκτης  : —‘beggar’: the preposition
πρό  instead of  παρά;  from  προϊκνεῖσθαι,  ‘to come before’ ... （  see  fr. 92） ... But Herodian makes it from
ἴσσω,  as in Archilochus:
I put forth my hand and beg.     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.149  
cf. Zon. 1573, Suid.  καταπροΐξεται  ,  Et. Vind.  cod. 32  προΐκτης  , Fav. 383   Etymologicum Magnum:   
The word  ἧπαρ  ‘liver’ must be aspirated, for synaloephe （of  ἐπί]  occurs in Archilochus with the  φ  , thus:
for thou hast no gall to thy liver.   B  compares Aesop  Fab.  183, where the Camel and the Elephant fight ‘for the crown,’ and the Ape declares them both unsuitable, the Camel because he has no gall （i.e. anger） against evil-doers; other creatures believed to have no gall were the stag and the antelope 
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.150  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
And so it is that the garrulous can never meet with any willing to share a dining-couch or tent with them on a journey by land or sea —they will only do so of necessity; for one of this sort is ever at you, plucking your coat or tweaking your beard or knocking at the door of your ribs, aye,
feet are the most valuable there; on land? prob. from a Fable     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.151  
as Archilochus says.    Plutarch  Garrulity:   
That the Cretan constitution is the most ancient is shown by Homer, who calls the cities of Crete ‘well-inhabited.’ Archilochus shows the same thing in the lines in which he mocks at somebody, saying:
and he's learning the laws of Crete. he is, as it were, still at school     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.152  
Heracleides  Constitutions:   
cf. Hesych.  ἀμφιτρίβας   They wish to lengthen the iota of  πεδοτρίψ  ‘wearer-out-of-fetters,’ in spite of Archilochus'
like scoundrelly knaves     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.153  
Herodian  Complete Prosody:   
cf. Sch. Plat. 393, Cram.  A.P.  4. 84. 10   α）῀  , ‘Ah’ :—... it is used also to mean ‘much’ and ‘great’ by Archilochus:
Much was he pleased, and in among the bulls... perh. he is the Lion of Babr.  Fab.  44     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.154  
Suidas  Lexicon   
:... from which comes Archilochus'
a tumour betwixt the thighs     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.155  
Cramer  Inedita  （Oxford）  
The dative  φθειρσί  occurs in Archilochus:
afflicted with lice prob. ref. to the Fable, not of the Fox and the Lice, for the Fox is always feminine, but of the Countryman and the Lice （App. B.  Civ.  i. 101） :—‘Lice were once biting a countryman ploughing, and he twice left his plough to clear his shirt of them; but he was bitten again, and so, to prevent too frequent interruptions of his work, he burnt his shirt’ 
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.156  
Cramer  Inedita  （Oxford）  
cf.
E.G.  390, 48 Bek.  An.  3. 1438 n   μέζεα  : —the genitals, because they lie in the midst of the tail-parts —Hesiod  μέσσεα  —as in Archilochus:
and severed the sinews of his genitals; prob. ref. to the Fable of the Beaver, Aesop 189 Halm     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.157  
with exchange of  ζ  and  δ  , me/dea.      Etymolicum Magnum   
This refers to the line of Archilochus
and much foam was about his mouth.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.158  
Scholiast on Aristophanes  Lysistrata     
παρδοκον  : —soaking wet ... and Archilochus
corrupt; perh. ‘because of a soaking   nightmare （or ague）’     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.159  
Scholiast on Aristophanes  Peace:   
Its tail-feathers wag, like those of Archilochus'
ceryl     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.160  
or cock-halcyon.     cf. fr. 102 and Apost. 9. 82 Aelian  Natural History     
As Archilochus says,
And much was the wealth which, gathered with long time and labour, he would pour into the lap of a harlot. some of the wording given here comes from Nicetas; both paragraphrases have  often  for   much       CURFRAG.tlg-0232.161  
Aelian  Natural History   
And they did exactly what Archilochus speaks of （paraphrase of the above）.   Nicetas  Choniata History:   
cf. Apost. 16. 32, Ars. 444 I will employ the expression used by Archilochus:
thou hast taken a cricket by the wing;    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.162  
if, that is, you have ever heard of an iambic poet of Paros called Archilochus, a man of great frankness and outspokenness, who never hesitated to utter a reproach however much it would hurt the victims of the bitterness of his lines. Well, this Archilochus, being slandered by one of these people, said that the man had taken a cricket by the wing, likening himself to the cricket, which chatters naturally and without compulsion, but shouts the louder when it is taken by the wing. ‘And you’ says he, ‘what are you at, inciting a talkative poet against you by seeking reasons and themes for his iambics?’ prob. a paraphrase of A.'s words in the same poem; cf. Catull. 40, which would seem to bring together frags. 94, 95, and 143 as all parts of one poem addressed to Lycambes （Hendrickson  Class. Philol.  1925. 155）; cf. p. 91     Lucian  The Liar   
Now the man who excels in strength, though he were stronger than one, would be kept down by two, as we are told by Archilochus and the proverb.   Aristides  Orations:   
The proverb is ‘Not even Heracles against two’; what Archilochus said is unknown, but it was probably something similar.   Scholiast on Aristides  Orations:   
Such was Aethiops the Corinthian （as we are told by Demetrius of Scepsis）, who is mentioned by Archilochus. It seems that he was led by his love of pleasure and want of self-control, when voyaging with Archias to Sicily to found Syracuse, to barter the allotment of land he was to receive when they got there, for a honey-cake.   Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
Stryme :—In his 5th Book Philochorus, citing the authority of Archilochus, mentions the dissension between the Thasians and the Maronites about Stryme.   Harpocration  Lexicon to the Ten Orators:   
According to some writers Archilochus is wrong to make Deianeira, in the episode of her forcing by the Centaur, recite poetry to Heracles in which she reminds him of her wooing by Achelous and what then took place, so that Nessus has plenty of time to do what he wishes.   Dio Chrysostom  Orations     
When Heracles wedded Oeneus' daughter Deianeira and was living at his father-in-law's at Calydon, he killed the winebearer Cyathus son of Architeles with a blow of his fist, because at a feast he unintentionally poured the foot-wash over his hands, and then fleeing with his wife killed the Centaur Nessus in the river Euenus. This is the account given by Archilochus.   Scholiast on Apollonius of Rhodes  
Archilochus could not bring himself to make Achelous fight Heracles as a river, and so made him a bull.   Scholiast on the  Iliad   
It said that （after Marius' defeat of the Teutons） the Massaliots used the bones to fence their vines, and what with the bodies rotting in the soil and the rains which fell upon them that winter, the earth became so rich and so deeply charged with putrid matter that in due season it bore an incredible crop, thus proving the truth of the words of Archilochus:
With such a man the field is fattened.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.163  
Plutarch  Life of Marius:   
Critias accuses Archilochus of slandering himself. ‘If’ says he ‘Archilochus had not published such an account of himself abroad in Greece, we should never have known that he was the son of the slavewoman Enipo, nor that through poverty and perplexity he left Paros for Thasos, nor what when he arrived there he quarrelled with the inhabitants; and more, we should not know, had he not told us himself, that he was an adulterer, nor lecherous and wantonly violent, nor worst of all, that he threw away his shield; and thus, according to him, Archilochus was but a poor witness in his own behalf, leaving all this fame behind him. Herein it is not I that blame Archilochus, but Critias.   Aelian  Natural History:   
Lynceus, according to the wise Archilochus' account, made war on King Danaus and slew him and then took the kingdom and his daughter.   Malalas  Chronography     
cf. Eust.  Od.  16. 33. 48 Archilochus compares the wine of Naxos to nectar.   Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
cf. Zen. 4. 48 Carpathus and the witness:—a proverb in the form ‘the man of Carpathus the hare,’  supply  ‘introduced’; there being no hares in the island, the people introduced them, and they became so numerous that their corn and vines were damaged. Archilochus plays on the proverb, saying:
Carpathus and the witness.     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.164  
Hesychius  Glossary:   
‘The man of Carpathus and the hare’; there being no hares, etc. （as above）; this proverb is given by Archilochus. the  original proverb seems to have been ‘The man of Carpathus and the hare,’ and A. changed it to ‘Carpathus and the witnes’    Zenobius  Proverbs:   
He cites the authority of ... the  Margites  , a poem ascribed to Homer, which is not only mentioned by Aristotle himself in the 1st Book of the treatise
On Poems  , but ascribed to Homer by Archilochus and Cratinus, and by Callimachus in his  Epigrams  .  Eustratius on Aristotle  
It is said that Alcaeus and Archilochus knew the unruly and insolent as  ἀγέρωχοι  or
overweening     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.165  
Eustathius on the  Iliad   
ἀγόμενος  ‘led’: —
a slave     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.166  
in Archilochus.    Hesychius  Glossary:   
ἀηδονιδεύς:  —the young of the nightingale, and pudenda muliebria in Archilochus. the part referring to A. belongs more prob. to the second of these glosses   Α᾿ήδων:  —Athena, in the Pamphylian dialect.   Hesychius  Glossary:   
ἄζυγα 
unyoked     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.167  
Archilochus.    Hesychius  Glossary:   
ἄκομψον:  —not knavish,
single-minded     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.168  
Archilochus; not well disposed.    Hesychius  Glossary:   
... and  ἀμφίβολος  means
requital     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.169  
or payment; at any rate it is so used by Archilochus.    Pollux  Onomasticon:   
ἀργίλιπες  ‘quite white’ as in Archilochus:
and it shone full white. sc. the dawn, cf. fr. 113 
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.170  
Scholiast on Nicander  Venomous Bites:   
γυμνόν  （usually ‘naked’ or ‘halfclad’）: —unshod or
shaven bare     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.171  
as in Archilochus.    Hesychius  Glossary   
βόστρυχος  ‘lock of hair’; from which we find the word
becurled masculine 
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.172  
in Archilochus.    Pollux  Onomasticon:   
Twice as much （or as great）: —Used of a man's age;
to one that is twice my age; feminine 
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.173  
Archilochus.    Hesychius  Glossary   
The preposition  ἐξ,  when followed by a consonant, changes the  ξ  to  κ  , but not, it should be added, if it is found in redundance; for instance, in Archilochus （fr. 5）, and again
through the myrtle,     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.174  
which here means the myrtle-branch.      Etymologicum Magnum:   
combed masculine plural 
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.175  
says Archilochus.    Pollux  Onomasticon:   
ἔτρεψεν:  —he entrusted （?）, he deceived,
（he） misled     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.176  
Archilochus    Hesychius  Glossary   
‘Half the third’ is used for
two-and-a-half     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.177  
by Archilochus.    Hesychius  Glossary   
Thriathrice     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.178  
Archilochus; and they were called after the Thriae, the daughters of Zeus, as we learn from Pherecydes. unexplained; cf. Ibid.  θριαθρικκί: μάνειαι καὶ ψῆφοι  ‘divinations and pebbles （or voting pebbles）,’  Adesp.  3A    Cyrillus in Cramer's  Inedita  （Paris）  
cf. Ibid. 741   ἶπος  is that which presses clothes in a fuller's shop; compare Archilochus:
and it lieth in the press.     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.179  
Pollux  Onomasticon:   
Besides  ἐκεῖθι  , we find  κεῖθι  , and  κεῖ 
there     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.180  
in Archilochus.    Cramer's  Inedita  （Oxford）  
The scorpion-tongued Archilochus cum mentulam
cornu tenerum     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.181  
appellat, seems to derive the expression from this. Diomed addressing Paris,  Il.  Il. 385, calls him  κέρᾳ ἀγλαέ  , which prob. means ‘resplendent with thy lovelock,’ cf. fr. 57     Eustathius on the  Iliad   
The fluteplayer performing on his flutes is also called  κεραυλής  or
hornblower     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.182  
in Archilochus' phrase.    Pollux  Onomasticon:   
Archilochus, too, uses the word
damsons     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.183  
Pollux  Onomasticon:   
κοπόεν ξίφος 
the sword that brings suffering     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.184  
in Archilochus, from  κόπτειν  ‘to cut.’      Etymologicum Magnum:   
the largest of the islands, called by Archilochus, with ‘pleonasm,’    cf. Eust. ad Dion. Per. 498  Crete;
Kreh/th.    CURFRAG.tlg-0232.185  
Stephanus of Byzantium  Lexicon:   
cf. Cram.  A.P.  3. 284. 7 The later poets use the word
κροαίνειν  to mean
to desire     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.186  
as in Archilochus.    Scholiast on the  Iliad   
But  κύρτη σιδηρᾶ 
weel of iron     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.187  
is a receptacle such as a birdcage in Herodotus and Archilochus.    Pollux  Onomasticon:   
cf. Sch. Luc.  Pseudol.  17, Suid.  κύφωνες     ku/fwn:  —used by Archilochus to mean evil,
deadly     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.188  
Scholiast on Aristophanes  
Epaphroditus derives from  λέχος  ‘bed’ the word  λεχαίνειν  ‘to desire the bed,’ becoming by change  λεγαίνειν,   derivation unlikely  whence Archilochus  λέγαι  :
and lewd women     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.189  
Etymolicum Magnum:   
μέσπιλα 
medlars     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.190  
also called  ὄα  , which is the word found in Plato   Symp.  190d （spelt  ὠά  ）; P. seems to confuse medlars with sorb-apples ; Archilochus uses the former.    Pollux  Onomasticon:   
μουνόκερα 
one-horned     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.191  
‘no longer having its strength’; Archilochus.    Hesychius  Glossary   
cf. Phot. 273. 13   μυδαλέας:  —‘wet,’ as ‘wet with tears,’ and  μυδάλεον 
sodden     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.192  
in Archilochus; and he calls a tear-wet, moist eye  ῤυπαρός ορ   
dirty     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.193  
Suidas  Lexicon:   
The word  μύκλος  is used to describe those who are too much given to women; it is derived from one
Myclus,     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.194  
a fluteplayer of that character who is lampooned for his lewdness by Archilochus.    Tzetzes on Lycophron  
cf. Suet. Miller  Mel.  415, Eust. 1329. 37, 1088. 39 musa/xnh:—
harlot     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.195  
in Archilochus, who also uses the words  ἐργάτις   
hired woman     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.196  
and  δῆμος   
the common sort     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.197  
and  παχεῖα   
fat one  
ἐργάτις  : ‘hired woman’; he （Archilochus） calls Neobule this as being fat.   Hesychius  Glossary   
μισητίαν  is used by Aristophanes for lack of self-control in matters of love, and the line   Scholiast on Aristophanes  
lewd fat-ankled woman     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.198  
is so explained. i.e.  μισητός  as meaning ‘lewd’ not ‘hated’; ascription not certain     Suidas  Lexicon   
μύσχης 
width prob. corrupt,  see  Hesych.  μύσχον   
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.199  
Archilochus.    Hesychius  Glossary   
ἔγχεα ὀξυόεντα  are spears made of beechwood, as in Archilochus:
the beechwood flew i.e. beechen spear 
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.200  
Scholiast on the  Iliad   
: ... some say it is used to mean a kind of bird; also a martial instrument, and a sea-trumpet or conch; in Archilochus the
snail   or less likely  whirlwind 
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.207  
Hesychius  Glossary   
σκελήπερον:  — doubtful word, perh. equivalent to  σκληφρόν  ‘slender,’ cf.  σκελεφρός   
silly little     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.208  
Archilochus.    Hesychius  Glossary   
συκοτραγίδης 
fig-nibbler or son of a fig-nibbler （a mock-patronymic） 
CURFRAG.tlg-0232.209  
is used by Archilochus and Hipponax of those who eat cheap.    Eustathius on the  Odyssey   
τράμις  the
rump     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.210  
... a word used by Archilochus.    Erotian  Glossary to Hippocrates:   
οὐλότριχες  in Herodotus, but Archilochus reverses the two parts of the word, making it
τρίχουλον ,
curly-haired     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.211  
Pollux  Onomasticon:   
... neuter, like ..  φλύος  from the verb  φλῶ  , used by Archilochus to mean
nonsense     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.212  
Eustathius on the  Odyssey   
Archilochus speaks of the
χηράμβη,  a sort of
mussel     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.213  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
ψαυστά  : —used for  ψαιστά 
barley-cakes     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.214  
by Archilochus.    Hesychius  Glossary:   
If to this we add a second iambus, it will be the pure Archilochian iambic trimeter acatalectic which I have dealt with above:
My shield is no more, nor follow I in the steps  . these 4 words purely conjectural     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.215  
Marius Plotius  Art of Grammar     
The catalectic iambic trimeter is made when six iambic feet joined in pairs, less one syllable, are combined in a trimeter, thus:
I beg thee, Muse, to say somewhat to the company. ascription only probable, but the use of  ἄντω  for  ἄντομαι  belies Plotius' own hand     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.216  
Marius Plotius  Art of Grammar   
For instance （from  ἀτμήν, ἀτμένος  ） the nominative  ἄτμενος 
slave     CURFRAG.tlg-0232.217  
in Archilochus. cf.  E.M.  164. 32, Eust. 1750. 62, Hesych.     From a Papyrus of the Last Century B.C.    
SEMONIDES 
Semonides the spelling with an  e  is vouched for by  Vol. Herc.  P. 1074. 105. col. 3,  Coll. Alt.  4. 201, as well as by  Et. Mag.  s.v. （Choeroboscus）; though everywhere else we find  Simonides  , I have adopted the distinctive spelling throughout : —Son of Crines, of Amorgos, writer of iambic verse; in origin he was of Samos, but was sent out by the Samians at the head of the colony they planted in Amorgos, founding three cities there, Minoa, Aegialus, and Arcesime. He flourished 390 years after the Trojan War. cf. Syncell. p. 213  According to some authorities he was the first writer of iambics, and he wrote a  History of Samos  in two Books, in Elegiac verse, and other poetry of various kinds.   Suidas  Lexicon:   
Amorgos is one of the Sporades and was the home of Semonides the iambic poet.   Strabo  Geography:   
Semonides is made contemporary with Archilochus, and Callinus comes a little earlier, Archilochus speaking of Magnesia as destroyed and Callinus as still flourishing. Eumelus of Corinth is said to have belonged to an earlier date and been contemporary with Archias the founder of Syracuse.    Clement of Alexandria  Miscellanies   
Amorgos —an island, one of the Cyclades, containing three cities, Arcesine, Minoa, and Aegiale ... Of Minoa was Semonides the iambic writer called of Amorgos. cf. Tz.  Chil.  12. 52, Phot.  Bibl.  319 b. 28    Stephanus of Byzantium  Lexicon:   
... I know too well that your life has been marked by innumerable deeds worthy of satire, lit. iambic poems  deeds such that I believe Archilochus himself could not cope with even one of them, though he should call in the aid of Semonides and Hipponax. Why,  their  satires —Orodoecides, Lycambes, Bupalus —you have made mere child's play in every sort of beastliness. cf. Censor. fr. 9    Lucian  The Liar:   
Semonides is said to have been born   in the 29th Olympiad （664-1 B.C.）.   Cyril  Against Julian:   
See also Eust. ad Dion. P. 525, Sch. Il. 2. 219.     
Iambi 
BOOKS I and II 
: Semonides: —
Thundering Zeus, lad, hath the ends of all things there be, and doeth with them what he will. There's no mind in us men, but we live each day as it cometh like grazing cattle, knowing no whit how God shall end it. Yet Hope and Trust keep us all a-pondering the impracticable; some abide till a day come, others for the turning of years. There 's none alive but thinketh he will come home winged with wealth and good things next year; yet one of us ere he reach his goal is taken with unenvied Age, another's mind is wasted by miserable Disease, or Death sendeth him below dark Earth whelmed by War. Some die at sea when they have laden a ship with their substance, confounded by storm and the many waves of the purple brine; others tie a noose about their miserable neck and leave the sunlight of their free choice. So true is it that nothing is without ills, nay, ten thousand the Dooms of men, and their woes and sorrows past reckoning. If they would be advised by me, we should not set our hearts on good things, nor yet do ourselves despite by letting our minds dwell upon evil troubles.    CURFRAG.tlg-0260.1  
Stobaeus  Anthology   
: Semonides: —
Were he to die we should not take it to heart, if we were wise, for more than a single day. or now that he is dead we shall not ... if we are wise ... （cf. Theogn.  passim  ）     CURFRAG.tlg-0260.2  
Stobaeus  Anthology   
: Semonides: —
There's much time for us to lie dead in, yet we live years few in number and live them ill.    CURFRAG.tlg-0260.3  
Stobaeus  Anthology   
cf. Apost. 13. 86 b  : Semonides: —
No man is altogether without blame nor without harm. meaning of  ἀκήριος  uncertain, but as  ἄμωμος  refers to what he does, it prob. refers to what happens to him; lit. unaffected by the  Κῆρες  or Doom-Spirits （cf. i. 21）     CURFRAG.tlg-0260.4  
Stobaeus  Anthology   
cf. Plut.  An. Seni  12,  Es. Carn.  2. 2,  Virt. Mor.  7,  Tuend. San.  22, Apost. 11. 98, Stob.  Fl.  115. 18 But he who is making true progress, comparing himself rather with the deeds and actions of a good and perfect man than with his words, and at the same time being pricked with the knowledge of his deficiency and glad with hope and desire, full of an impulse that will not rest —he is able, in Semonides’ phrase,
to run like a sucking foal beside his mother    CURFRAG.tlg-0260.5  
craving almost to be one with his good friend.    Plutarch  How a Man knows he is progressing in Virtue:   
cf. Euseb.
Praep. Ev.  10. 466 d （  Σ. ἐν ε , Apost. 5. 77 c, Boiss.
An.  i. 22   Hesiod says ‘For a man wins himself nought better than a good wife nor worse than a bad,’ and Semonides after him:
A man wins himself nothing whatsoever that is better than a good wife nor worse than a bad.    CURFRAG.tlg-0260.6  
Clement of Alexandria  Miscellanies   
: Semonides: —
In the beginning God made woman's mind apart from man's. or made mind apart from woman 
One made He of a bristly Sow; all that is in her house lies disorderly, defiled with dirt, and rolling upon the floor, and she groweth fat a-sitting among the middens in garments as unwashed as herself.
Another did God make of a knavish Vixen, a woman knowing in all things, who taketh note of all, be it bad or good; for the bad often calleth she good and the good bad; and she hath now this mood and now that.
Another of a Bitch, a busybody the mss have  λιτοργόν  , a form which occurs nowhere else and is prob. corrupt.; two ancient glosses prob. belong here; one,  λίταργον  , explained by ‘running fast,’ seems etymologically unsound, the other,  λιτουργόν   , explained by ‘scoundrelly,’ can hardly have that meaning; but the latter, besides its official use as ‘doer of public works,’ may have had the meaning given above  like her mother, one that would fain hear all, know all, and peering and prying everywhere barketh e'en though she see nothing; a man cannot check her with threats, no, not if in anger he dash her teeth out with a stone, nor yet though he speak gently with her, even though she be sitting among strangers —she must needs keep up her idle baying.
Another the Olympians fashioned of Earth, and gave to her husband all wanting in wits; such a woman knoweth neither evil nor good; her only art is to eat; and never though God give a bad winter draweth she her stool nigher the fire for the cold.
Another of the Sea, whose thoughts are in two minds; one day she laughs and is gay —a stranger seeing her within will praise her, saying ‘There's no better wife in all the world, nay, nor comelier’; the next she is intolerable to behold or draw nigh to, for then she rageth unapproachably, like a bitch with young; implacable and nasty is she to all, alike foe and friend. Even as the sea in summertime often will stand calm and harmless, to the great joy of the mariners, yet often will rage and toss with roaring waves, most like unto it is such a woman in disposition, nor hath the ocean a nature of other sort than hers.   or keeping the Greek  but the ocean hat a different nature 
Another's made of a stubborn reading doubtful  and belaboured She-Ass; everything she doeth is hardly done, of necessity and after threats, and then 'tis left unfinished; meanwhile eateth she day in day out, in bower and in hall, and all men alike are welcome to her bed.
Another of a Cat, a woeful and miserable sort; for in her there's nought of fair or lovely or pleasant or desirable; she is wood mad  for a love-mate, and yet when she hath him turneth his stomach; she doeth her neighbours much harm underhand, and often eateth up unaccepted offerings. cf. Ath. 5. 179 d   
Another 11. 57-70 are also in Ael.  H.A.  16. 24, cf. 11. 36  is the child of a dainty long-maned Mare; she refuseth menial tasks and toil; she'll neither set hand to mill nor take up sieve, nor cast forth the muck, nor, for that she shunneth the soot, will she sit beside the oven. She taketh a mate only of necessity. Every day will she wash herself twice, or even thrice, and anointeth her with unguents. She ever weareth her hair deep-combed and wreathed with flowers. Such a wife may be a fair sight for other men, but she's an ill to her husband if he be not a despot or a king, such as take pride in adornments like to her.
Another cometh of an Ape; she is the greatest ill of all Zeus giveth man. Foul of face, such a woman maketh laughter for all men as she goeth through the town; short in neck, she moveth hardly, hipless, leanshanked —alas for the wretched man that claspeth such a mischief! Like an ape she knoweth all arts and wiles, nor recketh of men's laughter. Neither will she do a man any kindness; all her care, all her considering, is how she shall do the greatest ill she may.
Another of a Bee; and happy he that getteth her. On her alone alighteth there no blame, and life doth flourish and increase because of her; loving and loved groweth she old with her husband, the mother of a fair and name-honoured progeny; she is pre-eminent among all the women, and a divine grace pervadeth her; neither taketh she delight in sitting among women where they tell tales of venery. Such wives are the best and wisest that Zeus bestoweth upon men; these other kinds, thanks unto Him, both are and will ever be a mischief in the world.
For this is the greatest ill that Zeus hath made, women. Even though they may seem to advantage us, a wife is more than all else a mischief to him that possesseth her; for whoso dwelleth with a woman, he never passeth a whole day glad, nor quickly shall he thrust out of doors Hunger the hated housefellow and hostile deity. But when a man thinketh withindoors to be gladdest at heart by grace of God or favour of man, then of all times will she find cause for blame and gird herself for battle. For where a woman is, they e'en cannot receive a stranger heartily. And she that most seemeth to be discreet, she is all the time doing the greatest harm; her husband is all agape for her, but the neighbours rejoice that yet another is deceived. And no man but will praise his own wife when he speaketh of her,   not  when he remembers her after her death （which would be put more explicitly）  and blame another's, yet we cannot see   or, emending the Gk.  we know well  that we be all alike. Aye, this is the greatest ill that Zeus hath made, this hath he put about us as the bondage of a fetter irrefragable, ever since Death received them that went a-warring for a woman. Helen, cf. Hes.  Op.  165 ff     CURFRAG.tlg-0260.7  
Stobaeus  Anthology   
cf. Clem. Al.  Paed.  2. 164 Semonides in the  Iambi:  —
like an eel in the sediment the oily sediment of a public bath 
CURFRAG.tlg-0260.8  
and the accusative: 
For a heron that hath found a hawk eating a Maeandrian eel hath taken it from him. prob. metaphorical, but it might be the beginning of a Fable     CURFRAG.tlg-0260.9  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner  ,  
Some take  κατενάσθην  ‘I took up my abode’ as equivalent to the future ‘I shall take up my abode.’ Compare Semonides in the  Iambi  :
Why have I let my story run to a long tale?    CURFRAG.tlg-0260.10  
where  ἀνέδραμον  stands for  ἀναδραμεῖν μέλλω.      Scholiast on Euripides  
cf. Eust. 1686. 51  : Semonides in the Second Book of the  Iambi  :
like to the egg of a Maeandrian goose     CURFRAG.tlg-0260.11  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
cf.  E. M. Vet.  167 The nominative is
ἴκτινος  ... the genitive of it being  ἰκτίνου  as in Semonides:
forthwith plunging among   lit.  putting on like a garment, but the reading may be wrong  the entrails like a kite    CURFRAG.tlg-0260.12  
Herodian  Nouns     
cf. Zon. 967   ζῴδιον  : —‘carved or painted figure’; it is written with the iota because it is found  in diaeresi  , as in Semonides for instance:
‘What a creature is this that hath flown to us! it hath the worst life of all living things’. Fable of Zeus and the Crab? cf. Sch.  Il.  18. 407 ‘said the Crab’     CURFRAG.tlg-0260.13  
Etymolicum Magnum:   
cf. Gal. 18. 1. 411   ... not knowing that the Ionians say  στενυγρόν  for  στενόν  ‘narrow’; yet we have self-sufficient authority in what we find in the following lines of Semonides:
&lt;If so,&gt; no man would have so feared a lion in the shadowy hills nor yet a leopard if he met him alone in a narrow way.    CURFRAG.tlg-0260.14  
Galen  on Hippocrates   
Sophron uses the form
κουρίδες  for  καρῖδες  ‘prawns’ ... and so Epicharmus in
Land and Sea,  but in  Logos and Logina  he uses the form with
ω  ... as does Semonides:
cuttlefish with tunnies, prawns with gudgeons do not mate?     CURFRAG.tlg-0260.15  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
cf. Ath. 15. 699 c Semonides in his  Iambi  has no compunction in saying:
and I anointed myself with unguents and spices and baccaris; for a merchant was there.    CURFRAG.tlg-0260.16  
Clement of Alexandria  Paedagogus:   
ὀρσοθύρη  : —a little door which gives access to the Gk. suggests that the door is at the foot of the stairs  an upper chamber, from  ὄρω, ο）´ρσω,  and  θύρα  ... so called because people move or rush   towards it; improbable derivation; it is prob. for o)rqoqu/rh because it opened not on the level but upon the last step of a staircase or ladder, cf. Hesych. o)rsoqu/rh （cf. o)rso/qric] occurs in Od. 22. 126, 132, 333  Semonides uses it in a ‘lazy’ form （i.e. drops the middle syllable as in  ἀμφορεύς  for  ἀμφιφορεύς  ]:
and I let myself out by lit. shut myself from  the back staircase-door.    CURFRAG.tlg-0260.17  
Etymolicum Magnum:   
cf. Zon. 539   διασαυλούμενος  ‘strutting’: —from  σαῦλος,  which means effeminate and disdainful; Semonides in the  Iambi: 
and with a swaggering gait like a horse with arching neck.    CURFRAG.tlg-0260.18  
Etymolicum Magnum:   
σκνιπός  is used by Semonides the writer of iambics in the sense of one that does not see clearly:
either blind or blear-eyed or leering. last word doubtful: if rightly emended it means ‘with lewd looks’ 
CURFRAG.tlg-0260.19  
Pollux  Onomasticon:   
cf. Eust. 1766. 1 According to Semonides ‘they （the shepherds） sacrifice,’ etc.
They sacrifice to the Nymphs and to the offspring of Maia; Hermes  for these have honour emendation doubtful  of shepherd folk.    CURFRAG.tlg-0260.20  
Scholiast on the  Odyssey   
... and Semonides' phrase
cast forth with sodden clothes     CURFRAG.tlg-0260.21  
that is, wet through.    Strabo  Geography   
παρδακός  means ‘wet through,’ for so it is used by Archilochus, and by Semonides of Amorgos thus:
laden with sodden clothes     CURFRAG.tlg-0260.22  
Scholiast on Aristophanes  Peace:   
The Tromilean cheese is famous; of it Demetrius of Scepsis speaks in the 2nd Book of the  Forces of the Trojans  as follows: Tromileia is a city of Achaia in the district of which is made a very good goat's-milk cheese which has no rival, and is called Tromilean; it is mentioned by Semonides in the Iambic poem which begins:
Many the things thou dost finish, Telembrotus, ere ...    CURFRAG.tlg-0260.23  
and he says of it: 
But there （stood?） a wondrous Tromilean cheese from Achaia which they had brought down.    CURFRAG.tlg-0260.24  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
No wonder therefore that the cooks of old times were skilled  haruspices  （or diviners by entrails）; for they had the management both of weddings and sacrifices; ... and another says in Semonides:
And the pig, how I singed it and cut it up in ritual fashion; I'm no 'prentice.    CURFRAG.tlg-0260.25  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
: They are also called  ἀρυστῆρες  and
ἀρύστιχοι  （which generally mean ‘ladles’）; compare Semonides:
No man gave （me） so much as a cup of wine-lees.    CURFRAG.tlg-0260.26  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
: I know that the poet Semonides of Amorgos is the first to call them  ποτήρια,  which he does in his  Iambi  thus:
He took away the table whither he had taken the cups. lit. by the path by which, etc.; or to which the cups ..; the tops of Gk. tables were removable     CURFRAG.tlg-0260.27  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
cf.  E.M.  798. 20, Zon. 1817, Apoll. Soph. 164. 21,  E.G.  560. 22, Cram.  A.P.  3. 279. 8, Matr.  An.  467, Ath. 11. 480d   φοξός   : —（a） This use comes from pottery tapered off at the kiln from the handle downwards; reading and meaning doubtful  compare Semonides:
But this is a taper-footed Argive cup;    CURFRAG.tlg-0260.28  
but some writers explain it as one that has his head tapering  towards his eyes  . （b）  φοξός  is properly applied to fire-cracked pottery, being as it were  φλοξός  or  flamy.   a variant is  φαοξός  , which apparently comes from the first etymology     Scholiast on the  Iliad   
cf. Suid.  ὁπλή   Aristophanes is not alone in using  ὁπλαί,  ‘hoofs,’ of pigs; Semonides also does so, thus:
waggled the hoofs of his hind-legs from a Fable? 
CURFRAG.tlg-0260.29  
Scholiast on Aristophanes  
cf. Eust. 1541. 31 The Dorians give the octopus an  ω, πώλυπος,  for instance Epicharmus; and Semonides too:
looking for an octopus     CURFRAG.tlg-0260.30  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
cf. Cram.  A.O.  i. 106. 1   δαύω:  —‘to burn’ in Semonides:
burnt thigh-bones these, wrapped in some of the fat, were the parts of the victim which the Greeks burnt at a sacrifice, the rest being eaten by the company 
CURFRAG.tlg-0260.31  
Etymolicum Magnum:   
cf.  E.M.  36. 37   ἔπληντ᾽ ἀλλήλῃσι  ‘they drew near to one another’: i.e. the opposing shields in a battle, Il. 4. 449  from  πλῶ  to approach; the perfect is
πέπληκα  and  πέπλακα,  the passive  πέπλημαι, πέπληται,  and in Semonides  πεπλήαται: 
the other benches are full the etymologist appears to have taken this to mean ‘the other timbers have drawn nigh,’ but there must be some mistake 
CURFRAG.tlg-0260.32  
Old Etymologicum Magnum:   
cf. Hesych.  σίσυς  , Sch. Ar. Av. 122   σίσυρνα  is a thick mantle or leathern cloak, which Semonides calls  σίσυς  for short, thus:
a thick plaidie     CURFRAG.tlg-0260.33  
Scholiast in Lycophron  
ἤϊα 
victuals     CURFRAG.tlg-0260.34  
not what you eat at home but what you eat on a journey, compare the  Odyssey  （2.410） and Semonides. citation lost, but we at least know that S. used the word     Scholiast on the  Iliad   
ka/rkara ...
bran     CURFRAG.tlg-0260.35  
in Semonides.    Hesychius  Glossary   
κέρκωπες  : —scoundrels and cheats; and  κερκωπία 
deception     CURFRAG.tlg-0260.36  
in Semonides.    Suetonius  
κορδύλη  : a
tumour     CURFRAG.tlg-0260.37  
in Semonides' 2nd Book.    Anti-Atticist  
κύβηβον  ... The Ionians use this to mean what is now called a
begging priest     CURFRAG.tlg-0260.38  
or  Gallus  ; thus Semonides.    Photius  Lexicon:   
booty of the Mysians     CURFRAG.tlg-0260.39  
Demosthenes in the speech  On behalf of Ctesiphon;  a proverb runs thus, which according to Demon in the 1st Book of his treatise  On Proverbs  takes its origin from the inroads of the border peoples and robbers into Mysia during the absence of King Telephus. Notable users of the proverb are Strattis in his  Medea  and Semonides in his  Iambi.   the proverb was used of anything that may be plundered with impunity    Harpocration  Lexicon to the Ten Orators:   
cf. Orion  App.  187. 29,  E.G.  408. 40, Matro ap. Ath. 4. 134 f   νήστης 
starving     CURFRAG.tlg-0260.40  
or fasting; so Semonides ... according to Herodian in his Homophones.    Grammarian in Bekker's  Anecdota:   
cf. Hesych.  παρσιήν  ,  E.G.  256   τρασιά 
drying-crate     CURFRAG.tlg-0260.41  
for figs.... also in the form  ταρσιά  （i.e.  ταρσιή  ], which occurs in Semonides.      Etymolicum Magnum:   
cf. Orion 168. 9   ψηνός 
baldhead     CURFRAG.tlg-0260.42  
in Semonides.      Etymolicum Magnum:   
for a possible ref. to S.'s Book ii see Xenophanes fr. 21 n The Lesbian Prylis: this saying is adapted by Semonides:
... ye sleep in ... like Lesbian Prylis cf. Sch. Lycophr. 219 and Milne  Cat. Lit. Pap. Brit. Mus.  53 p. 40, a frag. too mutilated to be included here  ...    CURFRAG.tlg-0260.43  
Athens MS. in Crusius  Paroemiographica:   
HERMIPPUS 
Hermippus:—Of Athens, comic poet of the Old Comedy, a one-eyed man, brother of the comic poet Myrtilus; cf. Suid.  Μυρτίλος  （‘son of Lysis’）  he produced forty plays. in two lists of comic poets Herm. comes after Pherecrates, who flourished 430 B.C. （Wilhelm  Urkund. Dram. in Athen  107, 123）    Suidas   Lexicon   
About this time Aspasia was prosecuted for impiety at the instance of the comedy-writer Hermippus, who included in the indictment the charge of making her house a place of assignation for Pericles with freeborn women.... Pericles secured her acquittal very much against the evidence, according to Aeschines, by shedding tears for her and appealing to the jurors.   Plutarch   Life of Pericles:   
Then Hermippus again lampooned Hyperbolus.   Aristophanes   Clouds:   
Hermippus too, the poet of the Old Comedy, wrote  Parodies  .   Polemon in Athenaeus  
Iambi 
Trimeters 
Hermippus in the first iambic poem in his  Trimeters  gives the children of Asclepius by Lampetia daughter of the Sun as Machaon, Podaleirius, Iaso, Panacea, and the youngest Aegle.   Scholiast on Aristophanes  Plutus     
‘White-fig’ is the name of a sort of fig-tree, and it may be this which produces the white figs. Hermippus speaks of it in his  Iambi  thus:
but the dried figs of the white-fig tree apart    CURFRAG.tlg-0252.1  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
... unless indeed they call by this name a kind of mud （or mortar: like Hermippus in his  Trimeters. 
He's built without clamps, only with the  ὑπαγωγεῖς  of his own habits. cf. Hesych.  ὑπαγωγεύς  ; but the ancient explanation is doubtful;  ὑπαγ.  is more likely to mean the tool with which the stones were brought flush with one another, i.e. he is as it were building with stones laid ‘dry’ and without clamps     CURFRAG.tlg-0252.2  
Scholiast on Aristophanes  Birds     
ὑπαγωγεύς  .., according to others a sort of mortar; compare Hermippus:   Suidas  Lexicon   
Tetrameters 
I come to talk over my cups, not as one of the Cylicranes ridiculed by the comedy-writer Hermippus in his  Iambi  thus:
I have come afoot into the spleen-yards prob. a play on  οἰνόπεδα  ‘vineyards,’ Cylicranes being taken to mean  κυλικοκρανεῖς  ‘cup-mixers,’ and the whole thing means ‘I am suffering from a debauch’ cf. Hesych.  Κυλικράνων  and Scyth. p. 244  of the Cylicranes, and so beheld the beautiful city of Heraclea.    CURFRAG.tlg-0252.3  
These, according to Nicander of Thyateira, are the Heracleans who live at the foot of Mt. Oeta, being so named from a certain Lydian called Cylix （cup）, who was one of the comrades who fought with Heracles.    Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
διασαλακωνίζω  is used in the same way by Hermippus in the Tetrameters
Quick, get the shoes on, and then step out opulently like this, with a lordly and delicate strut:    CURFRAG.tlg-0252.4  
But afterwards when she was quite the general I saw her turned Helot and playing the harlot and walking with a strut. reading and translation doubtful; some edd. connect with fr. 4     Scholiast on Aristophanes  Wasps   
It is possible, according to Symmachus, that  κεβλήπυρις  （generally translated ‘redcap’） is the name not of one bird but of two （i.e.  κέβλη  and
πυρίς  ]; anyhow the  κέβλη  is recorded by Callimachus ... Compare Hermippus in the  Tetrameters,  where a man is spoken of thus:
and any  κεβλήπυρις  of the dunghill of Themistocles;    CURFRAG.tlg-0252.5  
so that it would seem there is a mistake in one or other of these passages.    Scholiast on Aristophanes  Birds:   
.. Eggs and cakes and dried fruits. The same account is given by ... and Eupolis, and Hermippus in the
Iambi.     Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner     
Hermippus the comedy-writer calls the
soldier's lamp
σύνθετον  or  combination,     CURFRAG.tlg-0252.6  
in the  Iambi.  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
SCYTHINUS 
—A city of Ionia ... from this place came Protagoras the Teian and Scythinus the iambic poet. Anacreon's father bore the same name    Stephanus of Byzantium   Lexicon:  Teos  
Hieronymus declares that Scythinus the writer of iambic poetry took upon himself to put the discourse of Heracleitus into verse.   Diogenes Laertius   Lives of the Philosophers     
They are mentioned by Scythinus of Teos in the book entitled History, in the following words: ‘Heracles took Eurytus and his son and slew them for exacting tribute from the Euboeans, and laid waste the country of the Cylicranes for plundering their neighbours, and built in their territory a city known as the Trachinian Heracleia.’    Athenaeus   Doctors at Dinner     
Iambi 
On Nature 
At a later time, however, the Megarians dedicated to Apollo a gold plectrum or quill for striking the lyre, because it would seem they gave heed to the words of Scythinus about that instrument,
which the beauteous Apollo attuneth unto Zeus comprising the beginning and end of every thing and hath for quill the bright light of the Sun.    CURFRAG.tlg-0259.1  
Plutarch  The Pythian Oracle:   
From the poem  On Nature  by Scythinus:
Time's first and last of all things unto men, Hath all things in 't, is one and not-one ever, Is here when past 'tis, past when it is here, Inside itself it is and thence to itself Runs counter, lit. out of itself being inside itself it runs an opposite way to itself    
Anonymous 
None.    
A SELECTION FROM THE ANONYMOUS INSCRIPTIONS 
mainly from the collections of Kaibel and Cougny; for those preserved in the  Palatine  and  Planudean Anthologies  see Paton  The Greek Anthology  in the Loeb Series; see also inscr. ascribed to Sappho, Anacreon, Simonides, etc. in  Lyra Graeca   ... The Chest is made of cedar with figures of ivory upon it, some also of gold, and others carved in the wood itself. This is the chest in which Cypselus despot of Corinth was hidden by his mother when the Bacchidae searched for him after his birth. Because it thus saved his life, it was dedicated at Olympia by his descendants, who are known as the Cypselids,  cypsele  being the contemporary Corinthian word for a chest, and the child himself, it is said, named Cypselus for this reason. To most of what is depicted thereon there are explanatory inscriptions in the ancient letters, some of which are written straight and others in the style which the Greeks call  βουστροφηδόν  （or to and fro like oxen ploughing）, that is to say that the second line begins on the turn at the end of the first, as we run the  δίαυλος  or two-lap race; others of the inscriptions are written in spirals difficult to make out there follows a detailed description of the carvings  ... The man and a woman who follows him are explained by the hexameters, which say:
Marpessa the fair-ankled whom Apollo had taken from him is brought back again by Idas from the temple a willing follower.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.1  
... Medea is seated in a chair with Jason standing on her right and Aphrodite on her left, with the following inscription: 
Jason weds Medea, and Aphrodite counsels them.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.2  
And the Muses are depicted singing and Apollo leading the song, i.e. dancing lyre in hand  and the inscription is: 
This is the far-shooting Lord Apollo Son of Leto, and about him the Muses, whom he leadeth in a delightful dance.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.3  
Moreover there is Atlas holding up Heaven and Earth upon his shoulders as in the story, and bringing the apples of the Hesperides. And who the man is who is coming towards him with the sword is not explained by any particular inscription, but he is clearly Heracles. The following is the inscription on the whole scene: 
This is Atlas upholding the Heavens and about to give up the apples.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.4  
... The Chest also depicts the Dioscuri, one of them still beardless, and between them Helen, at whose feet lies Aethra daughter of Pittheus, in black garments. The inscription is an hexameter line with one word over: 
The sons of Tyndareus bring Helen, and carry off Aethra from Aphidna.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.5  
So runs the verse; and there is Coon fighting with Agamemnon for the corpse of Iphidamas son of Antenor; and Agamemnon's shield is blazoned with Fear with a lion's head. The inscription on Iphidamas is this: 
This is Iphidamas; Coon fighteth for him;    CURFRAG.adespota-001.6  
and that on the shield of Agamemnon: 
This is men's Fear and he that holdeth him Agamemnon.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.7  
And there is Hermes, too, bringing the Goddesses to be judged for their beauty by Alexander i.e. Paris  son of Priam; the inscription runs thus: 
Hermes here showeth Hera and Athena and Aphrodite unto Alexander for to judge of their beauty.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.8  
... There is also a representation of Ajax dragging Cassandra from the image of Athena, thus inscribed: 
The Locrian Ajax draggeth Cassandra from Athena.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.9  
... Now we could by no means guess who was the maker of the Chest, but as for the author of the inscriptions upon it, while they may, of course, be the work of some other man, my impressions on the whole point to Eumelus of Corinth, particularly in view of his  Processional to Delos  . see  Lyra Graeca  i. p. 14; the date are against P.'s view     Pausanias  Description of Greece  （Preger 186）    
The roofing tiles are not of burnt clay but of Pentelic prob. first Naxian, though Pentelic in P.'s time （cf. Frazer  ad loc.  ）  marble in the shape of tiles, an invention, it is said, of a Naxian Byzes, there is some mistake either in transmission or on the part of P.'s informant  who is reported to have made the images at Naxos which are inscribed thus:
I was given to the Offspring of Leto by Euergus of Naxos son of Byzes, who was the first to make tiles of stone.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.10  
The life of this Byzes there is some mistake either in transmission or on the part of P.'s informant  （  sic  ） lies in the reigns of Alyattes of Lydia and Astyages son of Cyaxares of Media. c. 570 B.C.    Pausanias  Description of Greece  （Preger 106）    
This is the monument of Tlasias son of Menecrates of Oeanthe, made for him by the people because he was a  proxenus  dear to them but perished at sea, and this city is sore with a public sorrow. And it was his brother Praximenes who came from his native land and fashioned this monument together with the people.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.11  
Corcyra, early 6th Cent.  
I am a post upon the tomb of Xenares son of Meixis.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.12  
Corcyra, 6th Cent.  
When you look on the monument of Cleoetas son of Menesaechmus who died a boy, pity him for dying so beautiful.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.13  
Athens, 6th Cent.  
The tomb of Phrasicleia; I shall ever be called maiden, because the Gods ordained me that name instead of marriage.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.14  
Attica （?）, 6th Cent.  
I am the tomb of Myrrhina who died of the plague.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.15  
Attica, 6th Cent.  
Man who walkest the way thinking of other things, stand and pity when thou seest the tomb of Thrason.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.16  
Athens, 6th Cent.  
They afterwards made many statues in the islands adjoining Chios, for instance in Delos, beneath which they inscribed lines saying: 
The city of Oenopion is valued not only by her vines but by the works of the sons of Archermus.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.17  
Pliny  Natural History     
Child of Zeus, prob. Aphrodite  receive from Ecphantus this perfect offering; for it was to Thee he prayed as he finished painting it. or finished it by painting it; inscribed on a column     CURFRAG.adespota-001.18  
Melos, 6th Cent.  
This is the tomb of Deinias slain by the ruthless sea.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.19  
Corinth, 6th Cent.  
Now Charmus （the polemarch） is said to have been the lover of Hippias, and the original builder of the Altar of Love next the Academy, which bears the inscription: 
To thee, O Love, thou maker of divers devices, did Charmus first set up this altar upon the shady bounds of the wrestling-school. cf. Paus. i. 30. 1  . Plut. Sol. i.       CURFRAG.adespota-001.20  
Anticleides in Athenaeus （Preger 70）  
Damaretus of Heraea and his son and grandson each won two victories at Olympia, Damaretus   in the 65th Olympiad （519 B.C.）, when that race was first introduced, and likewise in the 66th —the statue holds a shield, as in our own day, and also wears a helmet and greaves, which later were disused in the race both by the Eleans and the other Greeks —and Theopompus son of Damaretus and his son of like name, the former in the five-events and the latter in wrestling. Who made the statue of Theopompus wrestler we do not know; but those of his father and grandfather, according to the inscription, are the work of the Argives Eutelidas and Chryso themis. The trainers are not mentioned. The inscription runs thus: 
These works were made by Eutelidas and Chrysothemis of Argos, who had learnt their art from them that went before.   or, emending the Gk.  , their fathers     CURFRAG.adespota-001.21  
Pausanias  Description of Greece  （Preger 174）  
Peisistratus the son of the despot Hippias, who bore the name of his grandfather, dedicated in his archonship the Altar of the Twelve Gods in the marketplace and that of Apollo in the Pythian Precinct .. The inscription on the latter is still legible in letters difficult to read, prob. the colour with which they were inlaid had worn off; they are otherwise quite clear to-day  which say:
This memorial of his rule was set up by Peisistratus son of Hippias in the close of Pythian Apollo. the stone was found in 1877; this grandson of the great Peisistratus was archon some time between 523 and 510 B.C.     CURFRAG.adespota-001.22  
Thucydides  Histories  （Preger 71）  
The Megarians set me up here in obedience to the Delphic Voice as a far-seen memorial to the shrewd Orsippus, who freed the furthest bounds of his country from foemen who ravaged it far and wide, and was the first Greek to be crowned at Olympia naked for victory in the race-course where before men had gone girded. he won in the 15th Olympiad = 720 B.C., but the orig. inscr. was prob. not so old     CURFRAG.adespota-001.23  
Megara; in Byzantine lettering, but clearly a restoration of a very much older inscription (cf. Simon. 134 L.G.,  Sch. Thuc. i. 6  , Paus. i. 44. 1 （misunderstands 1.4; Preger 151)  
Phayllus:—. . Five-event champion, upon whom was written the following inscription: 
Phayllus leapt five-and-fifty feet and threw the quoit five-and-ninety. cf. Sch. Ar.  Ach.  214, Sch. Plat.  Cratyl.  413 a, Phot.  Lex.  
ὑπὲρ τὰ ἐσκαμμένα  ; the Pythian victor who commanded the Crotoniates' single ship at Salamis, cf. Hdt. 8.47, Paus. 10.9.2     CURFRAG.adespota-001.24  
Suidas  Lexicon  （Preger 142）  
The statue a bronze statue of Heracles  dedicated at Olympia by the Thasians bears the following couplet: 
I am the very work of Onatas son of Micon who had his dwelling in Aegina.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.25  
Suidas  Lexicon  （Preger 176b）  
When the Greeks enquired of the Oracle what sacrifices they should make, the God replied that they should build an altar to Zeus Eleutherius, and not sacrifice upon it till they had extinguished all fire, as being defiled by the Barbarians, throughout the country, and kindle a pure flame thereon from the common hearth at Delphi. The Greek commanders accordingly went round and had all fires put out, and the Plataean Euchidas, who undertook to fetch the fire from the God with all possible speed, departed to Delphi. There, after purifying and besprinkling himself and setting a wreath of laurel on his head, he took the fire from the altar, and running back again reached Plataea before sunset, thus covering more than a hundred miles the Gk. has ‘1000 stades,’ i.e. 112 miles; as the crow flies the distance there and back is 92 miles  in one day. And no sooner had he greeted his fellow-citizens and handed them the fire than he fell to the ground and shortly after expired. In their admiration the Plataeans gave him burial in the precinct of Artemis Eucleia, and inscribed upon the tomb the following tetrameter:
Euchidas to Pytho ran and back the selfsame day.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.26  
Plutarch  Life of Aristides  （Preger 77）    
... set up from the Medes as an offering to the God Apollo. this line was substituted by the Spartans for the eulogy of Pausanias （Simon. 16, 7  L.G.  ）; the grammatical subject is the list of cities on the ‘Serpent Column’ now at Constantinople     CURFRAG.adespota-001.27  
On the Plataea Monument at Delphi  
Pausanias ... when he was in the parts round Byzantium, went so far as to inscribe his own name upon the bronze bowl —which still exists —dedicated to the Gods whose images stand at the entrance of the Black Sea, and beneath it the following lines:
This memorial of his prowess was set up unto Lord Poseidon by Pausanias the ruler of spacious Greece.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.28  
Nymphis of Heraclea （Preger 100）  
Here （at Exampaeus） is a bronze vessel full six times the size of the mixing-bowl dedicated by Pausanias son of Cleombrotus at the mouth of the Black Sea.   Herodotus  Histories:   
Hiero son of Deinomenes and the Syracusans （dedicated） unto Zeus （these） Etruscan spoils from Cumae. perh. the originally suggested form of the inser. was a simple hexameter （omitting  ὁ  ] and ‘and the Syracusans,’ an insertion which spoilt the metre: cf. the Spartans and Pausanias' inser. on the Plataean offering, Thuc. i. 132 （see  L.G.  ii. p. 352）; Hiero defeated the Etruscans off Cumae in 474 B.C.     CURFRAG.adespota-001.29  
On a bronze helmet in the British Museum  
This wayside tomb shall be called the tomb of Procleidas, who died fighting for his country.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.30  
Acarnania, 5th Cent.  
.. and a Victory stands in the very middle of the pediment, also gilded. And under it is dedicated a gold shield with the Gorgon Medusa upon it. The inscription referring to the shield tells who dedicated it and why, it runs thus:
The temple hath a golden ewer i.e. the shield  which the Spartans and their allies dedicated as a gift from Tanagra, being the tithe of their spoils of the Argives, Athenians, and Ionians, because of their victory in the war. cf. Simon. 135.  L.G.  ; the Spartans and Boeotians defeated Athens and her allies at Tanagra in Boeotia in 457 B.C.     CURFRAG.adespota-001.31  
Pausanias  Description of Greece  （Preger 59）    
Tell, hand-wrought voice of stone, who set this offering up to grace Apollo's altar. —If thou wouldst have me say, 'twas Panamyes son of Casbollis who dedicated this, for a tithe unto the God.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.32  
Halicarnassus, mid-5th Cent.  
Standing thus beside Alpheus Pelasgus a-boxing once showed with his hands the rules of Polydeuces when he was proclaimed victor; and now, O Father Zeus, hand Thou unto Arcady again a noble fame, and honour Philippus, who here did throw four boys of the Isles in straight fight. cf. Paus. 8. 1. 2 （‘Pelasgus first king of Arcadia’）, 6. 8. 5 （‘Philippus the Azanian of Pellana won the boxing for boys .. the statue is by Myron’）     CURFRAG.adespota-001.33  
Olympia, c. 430 B.C  
This city and people of Erechtheus mourn those who died, sons of the men of Athens, in the vanguard before Potidaea, exchanging their lives for prowess and giving fame unto the land of their birth. one of three inscriptions on those who died before Potidaea in 430 B.C.     CURFRAG.adespota-001.34  
Athens, 5th Cent. （now in the British Museum）  
The famous workers in relief are these, .. and Mys, of whom we have seen an Heracleotic bowl with the Sack of Troy chased artistically upon it, and bearing this inscription:
The lines are of Parrhasius, the workmanship of Mys; I represent the lofty Troy which was taken by the sons of Aeacus. i.e. Achilles and Neoptolemus;  lines  means the design; cf. Paus. i. 28. 2     CURFRAG.adespota-001.35  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner  （Preger 185）  
According to Neoptolemus of Parium in his treatise  On Inscriptions  the monument of the sophist Thrasymachus at Chalcedon bears the following inscription:
T, H, R, A, S, Y, M, A, C, H, U, S do make my name; Chalcedon gave me to the day, And wisdom was my food and fame.     CURFRAG.adespota-001.36  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner  （Preger 260）  
Execias both made and painted me.     CURFRAG.adespota-001.37  
On an amphora in the British Museum, 5th Cent.  
Python son of Hermostratus of Abdera set up an offering to Hermes after seeing many cities.
Made by Euphron a Parian of no mean skill.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.38  
Peiraeus, 5th Cent.  
This tripod was dedicated for a tithe, as he had vowed, by Polymnestus' dear son Pyres unto Tritoborn Pallas.    Made by Cresilas of Cydonia.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.39  
Athens, 5th Cent.: also in  Anth. Pal.  13. 13   
Now in the Metroum, beside the Council House, you may see the gift you gave to the men who restored the democracy from Phyle... The clerk will read you the inscription written for those who restored the democracy from Phyle: ref. to Thrasybulus and his exiles in 404 B.C. 
By reason of their prowess the people of Athens' ancient land hath honoured with crowns the men who at peril of their lives first set about to overthrow them that had ruled the city with unjust ordinances.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.40  
Aeschines  Against Ctesiphon  （Preger 154）  
In the actual precinct in which the Council House stands a list is set up of those who restored the democracy from Phyle.   Scholiast on the first passage  
This was the inner meaning of the writer, whoever he was, of the inscription upon the entrance of the temple at Epidaurus:
Pure should he be that entereth the fragrant temple, and purity is to have righteous thoughts. cf. Porphyr.  Abst.  3; the date of the temple is c. 380 B.C.     CURFRAG.adespota-001.41  
Clement of Alexandria  Miscellanies  （Preger 207）  
From the day when the Athenian people first spoke of Cecrops, and Pallas founded this land for the folk of Athens, no mortal man hath done the tribe of the Cecropidae greater benefits than Sosibius and Pyrrhas.
Resolved by the tribe Cecropis in the archonship of Charisander 375 B.C.  by secret vote of the tribesmen in a general meeting in the Acropolis. Onetor son of Cephisodorus of Melite said: ‘Whereas Pyrrhas..hath distinguished himself on behalf of the tribe and the city, it is resolved to thank him for his goodness and to crown him with a gold crown worth 500 drachmas, etc.’    CURFRAG.adespota-001.42  
Athens, 4th Cent.  
Gorgias son of Charmantidas of Leontini
No mortal man hath ever found a better art for the training of the soul for the contests of virtue than Gorgias, whose image is dedicated in the vale of Apollo to prove not his wealth but his piety. cf. Paus. 6. 17. 7, Plat.  Gorg.  58, 488; Plin.  N.H.  34. 4 says that G. was the first to dedicate a statue of himself in solid gold at Delphi; this is the 2nd of two inscriptions under the above title; the first implies that they were both inscribed by G.'s grandson Eumolpus     CURFRAG.adespota-001.43  
Olympia, early 4th Cent.  
If there were a city made of such men as these, her enemies could never dedicate a trophy unto Zeus. Swift Ares slew Aristocritus as he won fame with spear and arm from an enemy. cf. Aesch. Ag. 110     CURFRAG.adespota-001.44  
Athens, before the mid-4th Cent.  
The statue of Epameinondas is inscribed with elegiac verses which declare among other things relating to him that he founded Messene and secured freedom for the Greeks; they run thus:
By my counsels Sparta hath been shorn of her glory, holy Messene receiveth her children after long years, Megalopolis hath been crowned with the arms of Thebes, and all Greece ruleth herself in freedom. cf. Ibid. 9. 12. 6, Aristid. 2. 541, Sch. Aeschin. 3. 211, Plut.  Non posse  1098 a, Cic. T.D. 5. 49     CURFRAG.adespota-001.45  
Pausanias  Description of Greece  （Preger 161）  
When he died his countrymen buried him sumptuously and inscribed these words upon his tomb:
Apollo begat two sons, Asclepius and Plato, the one to save the body and the other the soul. cf. Diog. L. 3. 45, Suid. s.  σάου       CURFRAG.adespota-001.46  
Olympiodorus  Life of Plato  （Preger 262）  
O Time, divine arch-overseer of every sort of things in the world of man, be thou messenger of our fate to all men, and tell how we died in the renowned plains of Boeotia because we sought to save the sacred land of Greece. ascribed in the mss to Gaetulicus, but in part surviving in letters of 350 —300 B.C. on a stone found near the Olympieum at Athens: prob. ref. to Chaeronea     CURFRAG.adespota-001.47  
Palatine Anthology:   
Recite him the epitaph which the city chose for inscribing on their monument...:
Far from their country these drew sword and put to rout the pride of the foe; these words are carefully chosen; they did not put to flight the enemy （for they were defeated）, but the enemy's pride （by their brave and unexpected resistance）  aye, standing their trial for valour or cowardice, hoarded not their lives but made Death their impartial umpire, that the Greeks might not wear the yoke of slavery and have hated tyranny on either hand. cf.  Od.  3. 486  But the bones of those that have borne the brunt lie in the bosom of their country; the bones were collected after cremation by Antipater, presumably for sending to Athens （Polyb. 5. 10. 4）  for it is the judgment of Zeus unto men that to make no slip in life and accomplish all things is for Gods, and He hath not granted unto man to escape destiny. the Greeks were defeated by Philip of Macedon at Chaeronea in Boeotia in 338 B.C.; cf. Aristid. i. 592, Liban. Ep. 1554, Themist.  Or.  22. 335, Sch. Greg. Naz.  Or. in Jul.  169 d  , Suid.  συγγνώμονα  , Phalar.  Ep.  126     CURFRAG.adespota-001.48  
Demosthenes  On the Crown  （Preger 271）    
Thurii:— ... also called Thuria and Thurium as in the inscription on Herodotus:
This dust doth cover the body of Herodotus son of Lyxes, lord of the ancient Ionian lore, who sprang of a town of Dorians; Halicarnassus  for to escape their monstrous blame he made Thurii his fatherland. cf. Sch. Tz.  Chil.  i. 19; not earlier than c. 330 B.C.     CURFRAG.adespota-001.49  
Stephanus of Byzantium  Lexicon  （Preger 38）  
..nor did the sinking scales of Fortune overwhelm thee shunning the baleful outrage of a foe; nay, self-willed came Death's end upon thee, as upon few of the heroes before thee. Wherefore to honour thee the Gk. suggests ‘as a son honours his father’  the world-renowned God Alexander hath set up here the guide of his wisdom. prob. put up to Aristotle by a Macedonian （hardly Antipater, who disapproved of the deification of Alexander） or on the proposal of a pro-Macedonian Athenian about 320; Alexander, who died before Aristotle, being a God is immortal; not in the new  Corpus  ; stone now lost     CURFRAG.adespota-001.50  
Athens, 4th Cent.  
Aristotle son of Nicomachus, the expert in all knowledge, was here set up by the divine Alexander. see n. 4;  or, keeping the text  , The divine Aristotle, etc. was set up by Alexander （i.e. the infant son of Al. the Great, the real dedicator being Antipater）     CURFRAG.adespota-001.51  
Athens, 4th Cent.  
said to be, or to have been, in the wall of the Propylaea, but doubtless originally at the Altar of the Twelve Gods in the agora; not in the new  Corpus   How far it is you shall know, since you have a true record which shows the length of your journey by letters; from the harbour to the Altar of the Twelve Gods is five-and-fifty furlongs. rather over 6 miles     CURFRAG.adespota-001.52  
Athens, 4th Cent.  
Crius （Ram）
The man who lies here bears the name of a ram, but he had the soul of a very righteous man. cf. Sosith. 2 Nauck     CURFRAG.adespota-001.53  
Athens, 4th Cent.  
in archaistic letters Here lies Polyxene, who hath left sorrow with her wedded husband and her mother and the father that begat her.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.54  
Athens, 4th Cent.（?）  
Of all that 'tis right for happy mortals to enjoy I partook in life and share in death; when I died I left regret for my youth and memory of my virtue; and my name is Lonchis.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.55  
Salamis, 4th Cent.  
After many pleasant games with them of like age, I that grew from earth have become earth again, cf. Theogn. 878  and my name is Aristocles of the Peiraeus, son of Menon.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.56  
Athens, 4th or 3rd Cent.  
Callisto
Thy body, Callisto, is wrapt in the bosom of earth, but thou hast left with thy friends the memory of thy virtues.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.57  
Eucoline    Peiraeus, 4th Cent. （?）  
Polyllus son of Polyllides of Paeania
This image of his brother was dedicated by Polystratus as an immortal monument of his mortal body.    CURFRAG.adespota-001.58  
Athens, 4th Cent. （?）  
Anonymous 
None.    
Other Anonymous Fragments 
1. Elegiac and Epic 
the Epic, Elegiac, and Iambic Fragments included under
Folk-Songs  and  Scolia  in  Lyra Gracca  iii are omitted He will so put fun next earnest that the playful may somehow keep hold of seriousness, and the serious be cheered by viewing the fun like seasick persons the near-lying shore. For laughter may be employed for many useful purposes and grave discourse made sweet,
Even as amid urchin-foot and spiny rest-harrow prickly plants  spring the blooms of the soft white gillyflower. cf. Plut.  Aud. Poet.  3,  Frat. Am.  13, Ath. 3. 97 d     CURFRAG.adespota-002.1  
Plutarch  Dinner-Table Problems     
Youth is made an ill by indiscretion:
Youth is ever headstrong, but if it harm the Right, then is it a thing far worse.    CURFRAG.adespota-002.2  
Scholiast on Euripides    
Well then, cannot we learn of our reason, and conclude that ‘Earth is full, and full the sea, of ill,’ Hes.  Op.  101  and that
Such are the ills which fall to the lot of man; reading doubtful  thick is he swathed about with dooms, and vain it is even for a barley-awn to try to enter. the metaphor seems to be taken from an infant so tightly swathed that not even the beard of a barley-ear （such as all of us who are country-bred have sometimes put up another's sleeve, to climb to his discomfort） can get between the folds     CURFRAG.adespota-002.3  
Plutarch  Consolation to Apollonius:   
Forms such as  νηΰς  and  γρηΰς  with diaeresis are not declined in Ionic save that they have an accusative and a vocative, as in 
The Thrian Nymphs who inspire the aged crow    CURFRAG.adespota-002.4  
Cramer  Inedita  （Oxford）  
So true is it that sympathy between brothers gives health and prosperity both to family and to household, and makes friends and acquaintance like an harmonious chorus, for they neither do nor say nor think contrary to one another; whereas
In time of discord even the villain receiveth honour. cf. Zenob. 3. 77, Plut.  Vit. Nic.  11,  Lyc. et Sull.  1, Alex. 53     CURFRAG.adespota-002.5  
Plutarch  Brotherly Love:   
If a poet thus expressed himself:
No longer care I for melodious hymns, no longer for the dance. this use of  μολπή  ‘song-dance’ as in the  Iliad  , indicates a very ancient author, e.g. Archilochus     CURFRAG.adespota-002.6  
Chrysippus  Negatives:   
As cities are friendly one with another, so are their inhabitants, and similarly
Men of Athens no longer recognise men of Megara. cf. Ibid. 2     CURFRAG.adespota-002.7  
Aristotle  Eudemian Ethics:   
Lynceus of Samos, a pupil of Theophrastus, and brother of Duris the historian and despot of his country, writes in his  Apophthegms  that when somebody once remarked to the fluteplayer Dorion that the skate was a good fish, he replied ‘Yes, about as good as if you were to eat a boiled cloak’.. The rejoinder of the fluteplayer was really not at all bad, for there's an old saying:
Though the Gods have given a fluteplayer wits, his wits fly away when he blows his flutes.    CURFRAG.adespota-002.8  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
Sometimes chance has made against the designs of good men, sometimes again it is like the proverb:
Good though he be, he has met a better man.    CURFRAG.adespota-002.9  
Polybius  Histories:   
the mss add ‘from Euripides'  Telephus  ,’ which can hardly be correct  Be patient, albeit the Gods give thee a hard lot.    CURFRAG.adespota-002.10  
Stobaeus  Anthology     
The form  κρέσσων  ‘stronger’ is found without the redundant iota  , compare ... and:
There's God after all, or someone stronger; we shall succeed.    CURFRAG.adespota-002.11  
Herodian  Words without Parallel:   
—True enough is the saying current among men:
The Gods have not granted to all men to possess all things.    CURFRAG.adespota-002.12  
Palatine Anthology: Anonymous  
And this accounts for the excess and defect we see in vice contrasted with the mean we see in virtue:
For the good are good in one way, and the bad bad in many.    CURFRAG.adespota-002.13  
Aristotle  Nicomachean Ethics:   
According to the proverb:
Thus doing one most righteous deed among his unrighteous. cf. Polyb. 4, 18, 15, 25 （which prove this the right translation）     CURFRAG.adespota-002.14  
Suidas  Lexicon   
The watchman should watch and the lover love. i.e. you can't do two things at once     CURFRAG.adespota-002.15  
Macarius  Proverbs:   
This too should be observed in the delivery of the elegiac pentameter; it often deceives the ear, as in the Greek line
and we to the Sea of Helle sailed away. Vict. supposses  Helles-pontus  to be separated by the pause, but this is not really necessary 
CURFRAG.adespota-002.16  
For if we pronounce Hellespontus as one word, it escapes the ear, so that it is not felt as a verse at all.    Marius Victorinus  Art of Grammar:   
... like
maidens stepping light and high. in the dance 
CURFRAG.adespota-002.17  
Dionysius of Halicarnassus  Composition     
'Tis but of little learning;    CURFRAG.adespota-002.18  
that is, easy to learn. the descriptive genitive belies an early date     Herodian  
τρασιά  ‘crate,’ also ‘fig-drying place’...
a cheating watcher of the fig-drying    CURFRAG.adespota-002.19  
Etymologicum Gudianum:   
Fortune, as if she were a poet, creates all kinds of characters, shipwrecked man, poor man, exile, man of note, obscure man. So it behoves the good man to act whatever part she assigns him. If you are shipwrecked, act the shipwrecked well; if your wealth has turned to poverty, act the poor man well;
Meet in little and meet in great.    CURFRAG.adespota-002.20  
Teles in Stobaeus  Anthology:   
On arriving at manhood you assisted your mother in her initiations, reading the service-book while she performed the ritual, and helping generally with the paraphernalia. At night it was your duty to mix the libation, to clothe the catechumens in fawn-skin, to wash their bodies, to scour them with the loam and the bran, and, when their lustration was duly performed, to set them on their legs, and give out the hymn:
Here I leave my sins behind, Here the better way I find;     CURFRAG.adespota-002.21  
and it was your pride that no one ever emitted that holy ululation so powerfully as yourself. translated by the brothers Vince,  Loeb Library       Demosthenes  On the Crown     
This saying is prescribed in the case of those who divine in themselves a change for the better. It seems that it was the custom at Athenian weddings for a child, whose parents were both living, to be crowned with thistles and acorns and to carry round （the bridal pair） a winnowing-fan full of loaves, saying, ‘Here I leave,’ etc.; signifying that they rejected the old wild way of life and had found that of civilisation. or civilised fare; cf. Hesych.  ἔθυγον, κτλ  .     Zenobius  Proverbs:   
For the good man has it in his power to be bad, witness another poet, who says:
But a good man is sometimes bad and sometimes good. cf. Xen.  Mem.  i. 2. 20     CURFRAG.adespota-002.22  
Plato  Protagoras:   
To Antiphates, who had enjoyed a reputation for beauty, and had used him disdainfully while it lasted and afterwards sought his favour because he had become great, he said, My boy,
We have both come to our senses at long last.    CURFRAG.adespota-002.23  
Plutarch  Life of Themistocles:   
You should realise these things, my lad, and understand that a lover's friendship is not given out of kindness but to get as it were a bellyful:
As wolves a lamb so lovers love the fair. cf. Hermog.  Rh. Gr.  3. 321 W. Sch. Hermog. 5. 487     CURFRAG.adespota-002.24  
Plato  Phaedrus:   
And therefore those are wrong who censure the poet's style in this way and satirise him as the elder Eucleides perh. the archon of 403 B.C. （Bywater）; cf. also Ath. 3 a, 242 b （Wil.）  does, saying that the writing of poetry is easy enough if we allow a man to lengthen his short vowels at will, and actually writing elegiacs on this principle:
I saw Epicharis on the way to Marathon    CURFRAG.adespota-002.25  
and: 
He would not have drunk the hellebore had he been in love. the translation merely gives the English of the Greek     CURFRAG.adespota-002.26  
Aristotle  Poetics:   
There are plenty of other riddles:
In clear was I born, my birthplace is in the midst of the brine, and my mother is the daughter of number.    CURFRAG.adespota-002.27  
Now  clear  means ‘Delos,’ which means ‘clear’ and is surrounded by the sea, and  mother  means ‘Leto,’ who was daughter of  Coeus  , which is the Macedonian word for ‘number.’ cf. Eust. 1558.3     Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
It differs from allegory in this, that allegory is obscure either in style or in meaning, and the riddle in both, for instance:
Less having suffered the son of Thetis;    CURFRAG.adespota-002.28  
For  less  is ‘worse’ and  worse  is ‘cheiron,’ and  suffered  is ‘made,’ and it means that Cheiron the centaur brought up Achilles. And again: 
Died of earth of belt when he lost pots;    CURFRAG.adespota-002.29  
meaning Aias （also =  of earth  ） son of Telamon （also =  of belt  ） died when he lost his arms （also =  pots  ）.    Tryphon  On Tropes     
Northwinds that blow at night abate after two days; hence the proverb:
Northwind o' nights Ne'er sees three lights. cf. Arist.  Prob.  26. 9, 14 
CURFRAG.adespota-002.30  
Theophrastus  Winds and Weather-Signs:   
... after snow and frost the Southwind; hence the proverb:
After rime Is the Southwind's time.     CURFRAG.adespota-002.31  
Theophrastus  Winds and Weather-Signs:   
: For this reason what is referred to in the proverbial saying applies to particular places, for instance that about the Northwest and Southwest Winds, which is mostly used in connexion with Cnidus and Rhodes ...:
The Southwest shifts 'tween cloud and clear, The Northwest nought but cloud doth bear.     CURFRAG.adespota-002.32  
Theophrastus  Winds and Weather-Signs:   
: And speaking generally the nature of the season contributes to growth .., which is the reason of the saying:
Season, not soil, Rewards thy toil. cf. Theophr.  C.P.  3. 23 
CURFRAG.adespota-002.33  
Theophrastus  History of Plants   
Why do we say:
If Southwind call up North, A storm will come forth. Plut.  Prim. Frig.  11 gives the 2nd line as ‘Snow will soon come forth’ 
CURFRAG.adespota-002.34  
... which is why we say: 
If Northwind find mire, A storm will be nigher. cf. Theophr. Vent. 46 
CURFRAG.adespota-002.35  
Aristotle  Problems:   
: Why when the Southwind is light does it bring fine weather, and when high, cloudy? ... or is it because it blows light at first ... and high at last? which is the meaning of the saying:
When South comes on Or when North's nigh done.     CURFRAG.adespota-002.36  
Aristotle  Problems:   
: Why do we say:
'Ware clouds from the sea In winter wild, 'Ware clouds from the shore In summer mild. cf. Ibid. 25. 7 
CURFRAG.adespota-002.37  
Aristotle  Problems:   
That the early figs are fine ones is shown by the saying:
When figs are begun Or pumpkins nigh done.     CURFRAG.adespota-002.38  
Scholiast on Aristophanes  Peace     
Why do we say:
Eat mint nor sow't When war's afoot.     CURFRAG.adespota-002.39  
Aristotle Problems  
Toss pot on high But let love go by.     CURFRAG.adespota-002.40  
Suidas  Lexicon   
Modesty sitteth on the knowing eyelid, and effrontery on the unknowing; and wise is any that hath learnt this.    CURFRAG.adespota-002.41  
John of Damascus  
Call no man happy ere you have seen how his last day is ended. 
Never say that any mortal man is all-happy ere thou see how a fate without trouble hath come upon him at the last.    CURFRAG.adespota-002.42  
Euripides  
Scholiast on Euripides  
For imperfection of the created world implies imperfection in the creator, and the works of God are flawless and irreproachable, created with an art and knowledge entirely complete; compare:
Not even a woman is so wanting in good wits as to choose the worse when she may have the better.    CURFRAG.adespota-002.43  
Philo  The Incorruptibility of the World:   
Now it is owing to this duplicity that man becomes more unmanageable and savage than an animal. For we hear the poets complaining that:
A snake and a lion in the hills a hunter may hear and see when he avoideth them, for their will and likewise their intent may be learnt; but a man hideth one thing in his heart and speaketh another; his words are smooth and gentle, but his works an enemy's.    CURFRAG.adespota-002.44  
Themistius  Orations:   
The guests at the public meals in Sparta and Crete were chosen by the cities with all possible care. Well has someone said:
'Tis wrong that dear comrades should refrain long from the revel; for of such is the recollection most delightful.    CURFRAG.adespota-002.45  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
The tragic poet Sophocles fell in love in his old age with the courtesan Theoris, and he prays to Aphrodite as follows: ascription almost certainly incorrect 
Give ear to my prayer, great Nursing-Mother, and grant that this woman may reject the love and bed of the young; let her rather rejoice in old men of hoary temples, whose strength may be blunted but their heart desireth. cf.  Vit. Hom.  p. 15, Eust. 1968. 41     CURFRAG.adespota-002.46  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
If the absence is long, it seems to make the friendship forgotten; hence the saying:
There's many a friendship lost for lack of speaking. cf. Apost. 14. 59 a     CURFRAG.adespota-002.47  
Aristotle  Nicomachean Ethics:   
ii Iambic 
cf. Zen. 4. 33   θύραζε  ‘begone’: .. According to some writers this saying arose from the great number of Carian slaves, because they feasted and made holiday at the Anthesteria. When the festival was over, their masters sent them out to their work saying ‘Begone, Carians, 'tis no more the Anthesteria.’ Other authorities give the proverb thus:
Begone, ye Spirits, the Gk. word generally means  Doom-Spirits    'tis no more the Anthesteria;    CURFRAG.adespota-002.48  
referring to the souls （of the departed） who haunt the city at that festival. The proverb is used of those who expect to get the same things always. this sentence only in Zen.     Suidas  Lexicon   
Juba in his 4th Book writes thus: I therefore give the most commonly used examples of iambic lines: （Archil. 94. 1, Eur. Fr. p. 240 N  and  ）
to Xanthe, that ancient crone so dear to many women     CURFRAG.adespota-002.49  
Rufinus  The Metres of Terence:   
βλῶσις  : —seat; compare:
（his） seat is a chair, a well-matched possession.   or, without emendation  , marvel; ref. to the two parts of the chair, which was like a camp-stool: cf. Hesych.  βλῶσις       CURFRAG.adespota-002.50  
Etymologicum Magnum:   
... when I saw a city in so prosperous case, in the words of the poet,
blooming with all the good things that make a city flourish    CURFRAG.adespota-002.51  
Lucian  The Scythian:   
and of the Priapean city which fronts the Bosporus    CURFRAG.adespota-002.52  
that is, Priapus on the Hellespont, a city which they say was founded by Priapus son of Dionysus and Percote. cf. Str. 13, 587, 590     Hesychius  Glossary   
and many are the waves of the wide sea that the Southwind rolls between us.     CURFRAG.adespota-002.53  
Cicero  Letters to Atticus:  You are far away  
If one of the poets were to express himself thus:
I do not deem thee worthy of little, yet I have not much. i.e. to give thee     CURFRAG.adespota-002.54  
Chrysippus  On Negatives:   
In pageants and festivals not only ‘greybeard and crone,’ cf. Callim. Schneid. 386  nor yet poor man and layman, but
the sturdy grinding-wench busy at the mill    CURFRAG.adespota-002.55  
and house-slaves i.e. slaves born in the house  and serfs, are transported with joy and gladness.    Plutarch  That a Life according to Epicurus is not Worth Living:   
I now provide you with things good both to hear and see, namely persons who carry themselves mildly and gently in their wrath; and I will first express my contempt for such as say ‘You have wronged a man; should man bear such a wrong?’   or, emending  , should such a wrong be borne? Nauck 912  and
Put your foot upon his neck, bring him to the ground;    CURFRAG.adespota-002.56  
and other such provocative speeches, whereby some transplant so unhappily the spirit of the women's quarters to the dining-hall.    Plutarch  On Restraining Anger:   
The word  βαύ  in imitation of a dog's bark is oxytone:
Bow-wow you say, like a dog. perh. choliambic     CURFRAG.adespota-002.57  
Hence the verb  βαύζω  ‘to bark.’    John of Alexandria  
γηρῶ  ‘to grow old,’ second person
γηρᾷς  or  γηρεῖς  ; participle  γηρείς,  compare: cf. Cram.  A.O.  4. 339 
growing old within the house     CURFRAG.adespota-002.58  
Etymologicum Magnum:   
Fitz-Stinkards prob. a mock-patronymic  on the father's side    CURFRAG.adespota-002.59  
because mules are the offspring of asses.    Hesychius  Glossary   
the road to Aenyra    CURFRAG.adespota-002.60  
Aenyra is a place in Thrace called after Aenyrus.    Hesychius  Glossary   
There were two very famous sculptors called Damophilus and Gorgasus, who were also painters, and who adorned the temple of Ceres dedicated 493 B.C.  near the Circus Maximum at Rome with both kinds of their art, inscribing their works with Greek verses to signify that on the right they were made by Damophilus, on the left by Gorgasus. there are perh. more fragments of the Iambic Poets among the Tragic Fragments collected by Nauck, but it is impossible to distinguish them     CURFRAG.adespota-002.61  
Pliny  Natural History:   
Why do we say:
Sow wheat in mire, 'Twill grow the higher; Sow barley in dust, 'Twill never know rust the ref. is not to heavy and light soil, but to wet and dry; cf. the previous chapter of Plut.     CURFRAG.adespota-002.62  
Plutarch  
There was a Spartan dance called
bibasis  competed in not only by children but by the older girls. The dancers had to leap and touch the buttocks with the feet, the leaps being counted up; hence the inscription in honour of one of these girls:
... who once did a thousand at  bibasis  , the most ever done.     CURFRAG.adespota-002.63  
Pollux  Onomasticon:   
Gross bellies do not make fine wits. Old fools do not make young wiseacres.     CURFRAG.adespota-002.64  
Galen    
To say that
No man fares ill for choice, nor well perforce,    CURFRAG.adespota-002.65  
seems partly false and partly true; for no one is happy against his will, whereas misery is voluntary.    Aristotle  Nicomachean Ethics:   
Untimely love is all as good as hate.    CURFRAG.adespota-002.66  
Apostolius  Proverbs:   
And thus to seek permanence in the fleeting, marks the man who has wrong views on life:
When wheels turn, one half's up and t' other 's down.    CURFRAG.adespota-002.67  
Plutarch  Consolation to Apollonius:   
Well said the ox when he saw the saddle ‘This is not mine; I bid it a very good day.’ cf. Hesych.  ἀστράβη       CURFRAG.adespota-002.68  
Macarius  Proverbs:   
Wise was the ox, and he said, when he saw the saddle, that that piece of furniture did not belong to him. 
‘This is not’ etc. —Said of the apathetic.   Diogenian  Proverbs:   
The Athenians say:
Says horse to ass ‘Kick not against the goad.’     CURFRAG.adespota-002.69  
Priscian  Elements of Grammar:   
The wolf has come to call the goats from fold;    CURFRAG.adespota-002.70  
used of those who try to play the part of a deceiver.      Greek Proverbs:   
The logical riddle is very ancient and most characteristic of its species:
What is it that we all teach without knowing how to do it?    CURFRAG.adespota-002.71  
and: 
What is the same nowhere and everywhere?    CURFRAG.adespota-002.72  
... the answer to the latter is ‘Time,’ which is the same for all and is nowhere, because it has not its nature （or existence） in one place; and to the former ‘preservation of life,’ because everyone teaches it to his neighbour without knowing how to do it in his own case.    Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
: And that about the barley-water:
Knead the peeled barley-corn and drink its juice.    CURFRAG.adespota-002.73  
Athenaeus  Doctors at Dinner   
A lisping lecher, short and bald and fat, Whose whoring's cheap, the Stagirite is that. there was a distinction between  παλλακή  and  ἑταίρα   
CURFRAG.adespota-002.74  
Life of Aristotle:   
